★What is the best approach for the successful kick-off and continuous implementation of a data warehouse?
John,  I would like to bring couple of  important things in DWH design/execution aspect. If possible please let us know those details. 1. Strategy: Technology is the last thing we need to worry about. What are the standardization efforts in terms of People and processes. This will help you get the strategy right to move forward. This strategy will help you build BI reference architecture, foundation and help you bring each subject area in agile way. 2. Never go with big bang approach: Do you have the enterprise level data model? Prioritize your subject areas. Bring each subject area in time period comfortable to your timeline.This will lead you to build roadmap with T-Shirt size option of features (small, medium, large (dream state). Strategy will also help you find KPIs needed for your each subject area. Agility in implementation can be for each subject area provide a set KPIs needed for each month... 3. While this long term strategy is executing or being worked out, your tactical plan(low hanging fruits) are important too. May be build a quick datamart, for those who has quick need of data, which later can be integrated to your main DWH (EDW??) 4. Don't worry about Excel  or any other end BI tools. Part of your strategy is to build a semantic layer which represents your business view of data for each subject area based on your enterprise model. 5. Next Generation of Data Platforms (BigData): This is not a silver bullet for your data needs. Rather a complimentary to your DWH. First have your data strategy right. 6. Speaking of data strategy, maintaining fully structured model (star or snowflake) is expensive. Some KPIs can be delivered with a large flexitable. let me know if you need more details around this. Facebook and Zynga has some success stories around this. 7. Even though I am technology passionated person, I want to keep this aspect in last as we use this as an acceleration for our strategy. One of the outcome of Reference Architecture (remember this is framework of standardizing people, process and technology). I know, I didn't answer all your questions directly. By knowing the details around what I mentioned above will help us providing more details.    Embed Quote