★What is a data warehouse?
A data warehouse is a single central location unifying your data. Building your analytics around a data warehouse gives you a powerful, centralized, and fast source of data. To build a data warehouse, you first need to copy the raw data from each of your data sources, cleanse, and optimize it. The process of getting data into a data warehouse is called ETL: Extract, Transform, Load. 1. Extract the data from the source system. One of the primary challenges is that you’ll need to avoid copying all the data every time you sync. Some of your data sources could have millions or billions of records, and copying every record during every sync isn’t a good idea. 2. Transform the data. In this step, data is cleansed, denormalized, and pre-calculated so that it’s ready for analysis. Cleansing the data means that you resolve any inconsistencies (i.e., links that have been tagged in different ways, or order statuses that have been tracked differently over time). Denormalizing optimizes the data warehouse’s ability to read data, and pre-calculations include the calculations that you know you’ll need frequently. 3. Load the transformed data into the warehouse. Once your data is loaded into your warehouse, it’s officially ready for analysis. You can query it directly via SQL, or you can work with it in a visual analysis tool. The term "data warehouse" doesn't imply a particular type of underlying technology. Often, warehouses are built on traditional database platforms like MySQL. However, an entirely new set of database technologies are now becoming available, including Amazon RedShift, HP Vertica, and Teradata, that is far better at analyzing massive datasets. Using these datastores as the foundation for your warehouse is definitely preferable if you have data sizes that exceed the capacity for more traditional RDBMS technologies to handle performantly. Not only will a data warehouse let you analyze data faster because it's optimized for analysis, by combining data together you can perform analysis that you otherwise couldn't. Some analyses require data from multiple sources to answer. Email segmentation by customer order data and ROI by advertising campaign are two very common applications in a business context. I wrote a whole post on this topic, including explanatory graphics, here: What the Hell is a Data Warehouse? | The Data Point    Embed Quote