★At what size (number of employees) does a business typically invest in building a data warehouse?I'm trying to understand when businesses begin making the big investment of building their own data warehouse and staffing a team interanlly with architects and analysts. I need to understand "when" in terms of size and I need to measure size in number of employees.
Your question is a very good question. I would approach it differently though, it's not so much number of employees but rather volume of data. I would say a Data Warehouse is needed when:     1) Excel or Access can not meet your reporting needs.   Too much data for Excel or Access to handle   The level of sophistication/complexity that you require for your reports is more complex that what you can do in Excel/Access    2) You are wasting too much time building reports. A datawarehouse can be something simple at a very low cost solution or one that runs the IRS. The point being how much time are you spending on developing the reports vs having it automated for you which is  among the primary objectives of a Data Warehouse.    3) Number of data sources are many   Do you have to pull data for your reports from one source or many? Do you have to copy data manually or can it be pulled in automatically for you. If you have pull data from a number of sources (each case is different) then a Data Warehouse makes sense. Imagine you pay for an employee to copy and paste data from one report to another all day long? A Data Warehouse automates it.   4) Assurance of Reports is critical. A final point to consider when looking at creating  data warehouse.  If your employee (s) leaves the company are you able to assure that the reports being created manually will work? If you need the reports no matter what regardless of the cost, then a data warehouse is the way to go.   Feel free to call me at 408 806 6558 email- maurice.berdugo@bpanalytics.comor check out our web site Home - BP Analytics I'll provide you as much info as I possibly can and help you out. There are many alternatives.    Embed Quote