★Can MariaDB be used as a data warehouse for BI?Would it be a winner in both worlds: aggregations performance on one side and data structure flexibility on the other? If not, which DBs could serve as a better candidates?
In some cases RDBMS are valid for BI, the question is about how many rows need to be read in reporting queries and the time you have to process them. MariaDB have a lot to provide in this case: TokuDB one of ACID storage engine that is oriented for on disk data processing with strong dataset compression and clustered index to read secondary index in disk order. MariaDB also have introduce DWH specific solutions   Multiple Join_Level from Hash Join to BKA Joins that gives you good speed improvement for big to small or big to big table joins .    in 10.0 it introduce histograms this feature is call independent storage engine statistic. This is gathering data distribution in indexed and non indexed columns to better address query plan Like Pg we have a so call table elimination feature that can greatly improved views  on star schema , not joining dimensions tables if they are not touch by the query on top of the view.  Now with the addition of long time existing features like partitioning this make it valid solution for BI. InnoDB,XtraDB get also recently  improved  with features to attach and detach partitions, to import tablespace. Regarding security and blocking Backup, Andrew need to better document himself . Non write blocking logical backups are possible via --single-transaction Physical backups as well via xtrabackup , of simple FS snapshot  TokuDB come with additional physical backup plugin as well. I don't know about the licence attach to it but it's for sure open source   Now in BI Most of time this is not even needed as you ETL can be stopped during backup time, but in all case this is possible and wildly used. For security, MariaDB have continue to provide more feature than ever . - Audit plugin as of 5.5 - Authentifications plugins like 2 steps auth or unix pam auth - Strong password plugin is available in 10.1 - Per table and tablespace encryption see : Table and Tablespace Encryption Now MariaDB also support the BI specific database InfiniDB - Downloadable from MariaDB portal - This is MPP column storage same design as Vertica or Terradata  - No need to index anymore - Hight compression rate - All cpu and servers participating the cluster work on the same query for map reduce This solution can be use for real time analytic queries and big data processing. but keep in mine the architecture is oriented on the response time of the query and most of the time won't be efficient for staging data.    Embed Quote