★Why should I use an existing ETL vs writing my own in Python for my data warehouse needs?I've been reading the Kimball Group Reader and they strongly recommend I use an existing ETL. Looking at solutions such as Kettle, SnapLogic, and Talend it seems their GUIs complicate the solution instead of making it easier to model and understand.
Given an option to build ETL processes using custom code or an ETL solution like Informatica, I would choose Informatica 9 out 10 instances. There are quite a few benefits in using an ETL product. Some of them are: They are a lot easier to learn. My personal opinion is that the learning curve involved with an ETL product is lot shorter than with learning a new language. Ability to deal with heterogeneous sources like flat files, XML, relational tables etc. Better readability. It is a lot easier to understand an Informatica mapping versus going through code. [I notice that you mentioned the complexity in using Talend. SSIS is praised for its interface, so that might be an option.] Leverage best practices. When using an ETL solution, I am taking advantage of the best practices that have been learned by the product vendor. Concepts like in-memory processing, ELT etc. can be implemented a lot more easily in a product versus custom code. Scalability is a big deal. If you are part of a DW/BI group, then it is easier to scale with an ETL product versus using custom code. Assuming that pricing is a consideration, there are a few options (like SSIS, Talend, Kettle ) that either comes in commercial editions or enterprise editions that are pretty cheap. Another big factor is that I feel there is a faster time to market with ETL products. I can build ETL processes to load a data mart a lot sooner than doing the same with custom code. ETL products are a lot more advanced today. Current generation tool-sets are a lot more complete. I can incorporate data quality checks; perform data profiling tasks etc using the same tool. My suggestion would be for you to request the various vendors to do a proof of concept and you could then judge which ETL product best fits your needs. Do look into the TDWI site (www.tdwi.org). They tend to have some good reports on how to evaluate various DW/BI related products. Hope this helps. Feel free to correct me if you do feel the need to do so. Interested in seeing if there are other opinions in this regard.    Embed Quote