★What is it like to be a data warehouse engineer at Facebook?
I think I'm in a pretty unique position to answer this question as a consultant on the data warehousing team working in the role of a data engineer.  I am currently (as of Feb 2014)  working full time with the Growth & Mobile analytics group under the team lead by Siva Kolappa as my client and also previously worked with the team back in late 2012.  I proudly represent (along with a few of my colleagues) Slalom Consulting here. As a consultant, I've done BI work at many organizations, both in and out of the silicon valley.  I've worked in roles ranging from the very technical developer and architect to the completely hands off project manager.  Without a doubt, Facebook is a place unlike any other. Culture The culture of the data warehousing team is very similar to other engineering parts of Facebook.  I think the company's core values are very well engrained in this team.  In particular, "move fast" and "focus on impact" are at the root of every decision we make.  Facebook has a culture built around getting things done and not letting any kind of red tape get in the way.  The phrase "done is better than perfect" is thrown around here and its a philosophy that has served the team well.  Most places I've worked tend to put a much bigger focus on defining fixed scope, budgets and timelines and then sticking to them as much as possible.  Generally speaking Facebook is a place where you are encouraged to take risks and not fear failure. As you could imagine, Facebook is a very engineering centric organization.  We poke fun at a lot of things, especially ourselves.  For example, within the code review tools, you can insert your own custom internet meme's that make fun of either your own code, someone else's code, or just something funny (there's even a tool for generating your own internal memes).  It also takes a week or two to get used to not having to "alt-tab" the browser with Facebook open when people walk by.  Many of the enterprise tools are built on the Facebook platform so in addition to the work stuff you still also see and interact with all your normal Facebook activity.  There's also tons of internal groups where you can ask questions, get answers to things, or just engage in random conversation. What I find particularly unique about the culture as well is that success isn't defined by what you're wearing, your word smithing skills or who you know.  It's defined on your ability to do your job and deliver impactful results.  I wear jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes to work every day.  We sit in completely open work spaces where I only have a desk, a monitor, and keyboard (the same kind of setup Zuck and everyone else has).  The closest thing you'll get to a cube is putting on your headphones. The ceilings are exposed which means you can setup network and power just about anywhere.  And it also gives a vibe of "nothing is ever done".  There's no shortage of employee stocked bars right next to our work areas (because sometimes a drink before a long coding session helps).  Of course the other well known perks such as the awesome sponsored food choices and ridiculously stocked break rooms are a great benefit and add to the culture as well. I also find it very common at a lot of other companies to have your entire 8-5 day filled with meetings, meaning your "real work" is done after hours.  This isn't the case on the Facebook data warehousing team.  We tend to only do meetings that are necessary for conveying information or directly applicable to the work we're doing.  This means most of my day is typically spent doing the hands on work I'm assigned to do. Projects The projects I work on typically involve leveraging scraped log data from Hadoop and creating data pipelines to get the data into a reportable format and platform.  This kind of work is at the core of what the team does.  We take the raw data gathered from... (more)Loading...