★Is ERP system a good example of a Data Warehouse?As what I've seen; ERPs are used for report generation; as Data Warehouse is used for. Please correct me if I'm wrong.
The simple answer to your question is no, ERP systems and a Data Warehouse are two separate types of systems and the presence of a reporting function does not make a system a Data Warehouse. The long answer is in describing what an ERP system is versus what a Data Warehouse is. I don't deal in ERP systems. I'm a Data Warehouse guy, so for the ERP side of this, I have to rely on Gartner. Gartner defines an ERP system as: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) | Gartner "Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is defined as the ability to deliver an integrated suite of business applications. ERP tools share a common process and data model, covering broad and deep operational end-to-end processes, such as those found in finance, HR, distribution, manufacturing, service and the supply chain." Take PeopleSoft for example. It is a singular application that has modules and functionality to automate multiple business functions, HR, Finance, etc.   A data warehouse on the other hand deals only in data. The sole purpose of a data warehouse is to bring in data from disparate sources, cleanse it and store it on a single common platform for the use in enterprise wide data analysis, reporting, or integrating data into other systems. A data warehouse is not a transactional system like an ERP system would be. There is a key difference between the two systems that I think is important to point out is around conforming to a common process. An ERP system lives on common process. The systems are designed to reduce cost and effort by adopting a common process. While it is best practice in a DW to do things in a similar and common fashion - depending on your source system and what you want to do with the data, various source feeds may come in very different ways. Inventory data may come real or near real time off of a messaging queue, while sales come in a nightly batch feed that goes through a cleansing process. The output of data from a warehouse may follow multiple processes - it may be outputted as an extract file, a report, or integration to an application such as SAS, or even a transactional system.   My personal opinion is that the strength and value of the warehouse comes from the flexibility it gives you for your data. Don’t get me wrong, I would always advocate for following a common ETL or ELT methodology and tool set, but the processes can be tweaked and managed to do so much more with data than what an ERP or transactional system allows.   The other aspect of your question I want to address is that both systems produce reports. Just because a system produces a report doesn’t make it a data warehouse. Many systems produce reports. You could have data sitting in tables on a mainframe that you write reports off of. A data warehouse has less to do with reporting and more to do with how the data is brought in, cleansed and stored.    Embed Quote