★What are alternatives to building a data warehouse?
2.5 million could be cheap or it could be outrageous it is hard to tell from this description.  The only real way to have a single view of the data is to put it into one place.  There are wrappers you can put around your data that can allow you to search for it from a single place.  It sounds to me like a data warehouse is what you want so I will go on in that vein.  The most important consideration is what skills you have in the company?  Do you have people who are oracle certified or Microsoft certified?  Do you have an IT department, do you employ a real DBA (not just a person with the title)?  What I'm getting at is, if you have people with the skills to set up a database, create a data model, and wrote simple SQL ETL jobs you could do the whole thing for the price of the hardware and a shit ton of knowhow with postgreSQL.  If the above description is unrealistic (it almost certainly is) you need to consider spending some money.  Then you need to decide if you like the databases you are with or if you are ready to rip and replace one of the two you have.  Both Oracle and Microsoft have decent data warehouse products.  If your data is truly messed up, probable since you mentioned ACCESS, you might need an ETL tool for at least the initial data loading process.  Then depending on what the 5 people want to do you might also need to purchase analytics software, visualization software and BI software.  In this case a bid of 2.5 million starts to seem less unreasonable.    If you are willing to rip and replace one or both databases I would write up an RFI and get as many people in the door to write up proposals as you can.  Enjoy as many free lunches as they will take you to and keep in mind that all of them will be focusing on what makes their product pretty while trying to point out the ugly parts of their competitors.  Make sure you get your current vendors in the door and then as many others as possible. FYI, the top right right corner in the Jan 31, 2013 Gartner report for data warehouses includes, Teradata, oracle, IBM, SAP, Microsoft, and EMC.  Get as many of them as possible in the room and let them 'educate you'.    Embed Quote