★What are alternatives to building a data warehouse?
The cost of data analysis has dropped significantly over the past couple of years. With open source NoSQL database technology and on-demand computing cloud services such as Amazon Web Services, you really don't need a multi-million data warehouse to achieve basic data analysis goals. Don't let people convince you need one, it's expensive and inflexible. Instead of buying or renting dedicated servers and paying for software licences, would think about using on-demand cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services. Doing data analysis in the cloud comes with many advantages, the biggest being elasticity and flexibility: you only pay for what you use today. If you don't need 100 powerful machines to do your analysis today, just use 10 now, and scale up later when your workload or data volume increases. You can spin machines down, provision new ones within minutes. First I would consider if your data loads are big enough to require anymore than a single machine with the right analytics software. From what you told us in your question, you don't really have a lot of data, and you may get away with using SQL-based analytics tools or something like Tableu to visualise it. Or you could use R or python for more complex analysis. If you have multiple diverse data sources, large enough so that single-machine software such as excel or R cannot handle them, I would suggest exporting all that data to Amazon S3. S3 stands for simple storage service, and it is indeed very simple, and relatively cheap(certainly not millions) You only pay for what you use, and reading the data from other Amazon services won't cost you anything. Use Hive over Amazon Elastic Map Reduce to implement your analytic workload. Hive has an SQL like query language but allows you to combine data in multiple formats. Look into using Amazon Spot Instances. Currently a cluster of 10 high-cpu instances works out to about $1 per hour, and it is sufficient to process hundred million rows within an hour. If you have real-time needs, than you might also want to consider other open source solutions such as Cloudera Impala. I suspect the most expensive component in an AWS-based solution would be a good data engineer/DevOps person who can set it up for you. Other than that, operational costs are really manageable.    Embed Quote