★What is a good introduction to data warehouse?technologies, companies, markets, application, notable people, etc.
I'm going to approach this question from a large enterprise (businesses with approximately >=5k employees) perspective. There are many open source ETL and database softwares that I'm sure work just fine for smaller companies (I have no practicle experience with them).   Technologies: ETL (Extract Transform and Load) or ELT or some combination or the three. SQL Unix/Linux RDBMS (Relational Database Management Systems) Data Warehouse Appliances (Exadata, Netezza, Teradata, etc)   Companies: Informatica IBM (DB2, Pure Systems (FKA Netezza), InfoSphere (FKA DataStage), Cognos) Teradata Greenplum Microsoft (SQL Server, SSIS, Excel) Oracle SAP Microstrategy SAS *These are the big players. There are numerous smaller companies that do data warehousing consulting or provide open source software, etc.   Markets: Finance Retail Healthcare * These are the big three, though really any organization that has a need to do reporting on data that they either can't get or shouldn't get out of their transactional systems would be viable to use a data warehouse.   Applications: Data Warehouse is typically fed by transactional applications and usually feed Business Intelligence software.   Notable People in Data Warehousing (Besides me of course.. just kidding): Ralph Kimball - "Father of Business Intellgence" Bill Inmon - "Father of Data Warehousing" Barry Devlin - Created the Devlin Approach to building warehouses Claudia Imhoff - DWBI Author Speaker and Consultant, On the DAMA and TDWI board of advisors Margy Ross - Co-Authored Data Warehouse ToolKit: Complete Guide to Dimensional Modeling, President of the Kimball Institute Joy Mundy - Authored the Microsoft DWBI Book, Member of the Kimball Institute Tom Coffing - Author of at least 10 Teradata Data Warehouse books (might be more by now) Dan Linstedt - Created the Data Vault method of building Data Warehouses Stephen Brobst - MIT Professor and CTO of Teradata Warren Thornthwaite - Co-Authored Data Warehouse Toolkit with Ross and Kimball and Microsoft DWBI Book with Mundy and Kimball.     Now before anyone asks about Big Data and Hadoop, Hive, Map Reduce, NoSQL, Cloudera, or Hortonworks.. Not the same as traditional Data Warehousing and are different enough that they really don't belong in the same space.    Embed Quote