★All these Machine learning algorithms, what is the point?  It seems like choice of machine learning algorithm, decision tree, neural net, svm, isn't nearly important as the feature selection and feature extraction process which determines what goes in to it, garbage in garbage out, that sort of thing.
I think this is a simplistic view. Firstly, feature selection and feature extraction are within the fold of machine learning, and there are many techniques for automating the process. For example, one of the leading researchers in the field Andrew Ng is now researching how to automating feature extraction . Things like the wrapper feature subset selection approach are considered well within the scope of machine learning. My PhD was in Machine Learning, but I didn't invent a new algorithm, I just worked out how to automatically convert time series to conventional classification problems (https://sites.google.com/site/wa...). Secondly, the algorithms have different characteristics -- not everything is about accuracy. You use different algorithms for different situations and applications. For example: Want something that is potentially human comprehensible? Use decision trees or rules. Have a situation where you have lots of memory, but have to learn incrementally and evaluate quickly? Use Nearest Neighbour. Have a clear binary decision in a continuous space? Use SVMs. Have thousands of independent attributes and lots of data? Use Naive Bayes. Have a situation where you know which attributes are correlated with which? Use Bayes nets. You get the idea. There's more to machine learning than running win/lose/draw in your favorite machine learning toolkit and saying "Look, my algorithm does best on these data sets." You need to think about building an entire system. Example: probably the cutest recent applications of machine learning is the Kinect's body part detection (http://research.microsoft.com/pu...). The choice of random forests is critical, mainly because it has bounded computation that can be accelerated using GPUs -- so they can guarantee it runs in 20ms always. It's not as simple as saying "SVM, neural net, decision tree all the same."    Embed Quote