Why is e-commerce such a hot area in venture capital now?
Let's not forget that an ecommerce business model has two main components: marketing and inventory.  Most of the answers so far have come from the marketing side, and there have been great innovations in acquiring customers over social, mobile, etc.  But that's only half the story: there have also been some important inventory model innovations in the past four or five years. For instance, Etsy, ModCloth, Moxsie, and Threadless all use independent or crowdsourced designs and/or manufacturing to improve turn and margin over traditional retail models, thereby minimizing inventory risk and capital requirements for scaling inventory.  The private sales (Gilt Groupe), consignment (HauteLook), and subscription (ShoeDazzle.com) models also do the same.  (I don't include Groupon because they don't actually sell anything -- they're a marketing company to me, not a true ecommerce company.) Here's an extremely oversimplified illustration of how huge that effect can be on scaling.  Our competitor can buy $100 of inventory, generate $200 in sales, and it takes 6 months to sell the entire $100.  After 6 months, they take the $200, buy that much inventory, and sell $400 in the second half of the year.  So, in a year, they generate $600 in revenue in a $100 investment in inventory. Let's say we figure out a way to sell the same thing as our competitors, but at double the turn.  So, it only takes us 3 months to sell out and generate the first $200.  In Q2, we sell $400, Q3 is $800, and Q4 is $1600.  So, on the same $100 investment in inventory, we had $3000 in sales for the year vs. our competitor's $600.  Doubling the turn actually made 5x the revenue, not just 2x! And that's just turn.  If you have higher margins and apply some leverage (debt) to the model, things can get huge pretty fast.  Also, from an equity investor's perspective, it's a much more attractive investment, since the money isn't just tied up in inventory.  Usually, you want to use debt to finance inventory growth instead of equity. I really think it's the combination of the marketing and inventory innovations that have made the sector explode.  The marketing side gets most of the publicity, since we're mostly Internet geeks on Quora, and frankly turn, margin, leverage, and supply chain economics aren't all that exciting for most people.  However, we shouldn't overlook the inventory model changes -- they are just as important, in that they allow the inventory scaling to keep up with the marketing scaling, and you need both in ecommerce. UPDATE: In the comments, Mark MacLeod made a great point about how a lot of these companies also collect the money before they pay, ie the customer finances the inventory, aka negative working capital.  Matthew Carroll has an excellent description of how this works in How does Gilt's business model work? Updated 9 Jun 2011 • View Upvotes