What were some questions asked by Oracle and FB to the highest paid IITians?
I was one of the students who were offered US-profile by Oracle in my college. Below listed are some questions that were asked to me in my interview: Round 1 Explain me about your internship project. Which language did you use for coding the above project ? Insert data in a B+ tree. Give both structure of node and algorithm. Gave a code and asked me to change only one character to make it working. Declared an integer inside the switch case block, and asked how will compiler generate the corresponding assembly code for it. (Hint: the variable will be declared on the stack and the CMP in assembly sets the zero flag to 1 if the contents of the register compared is same as the accumulator). Explain joins in DBMS. Normal Forms in DBMS. When will you consider ‘not’ breaking the tables i.e. favour a lower normal(like 2NF) form over a higher one(like 3NF)(Hint: Joins might become expensive in case of Huge Data). Round 2 What is caching ? Give an implementation for LRU cache. Given a list of words find all anagrams. Difference between Abstraction and Encapsulation. Median of 2 sorted arrays. Runtime polymorphism. Use of Access Specifiers and virtual functions. Difference between finally and finalize in java. Who calls finalize ? Can garbage collector call finalize ? (Hint: finalize is a destructor). Difference between error and exception. (Hint: Stack overflow is error while Divide_By_Zero is exception). Binary Search in Linked List. Possible ? (Hint: Accessing ith element must be O(1) for Binary Search to work in O(log n) time). Difference between Process and thread. Interprocess communication.(pipes, message passing queues, shared memory, file-descriptors). How do threads communicate ? Any problems with sharing data ? How will you resolve shared access ? Difference between padding and packing. What is SQL injection. What is ‘prepare statement’ Garbage collection in c++ and java.(Hint: Java uses Mark and sweep algo. for garbage collection, in c++ garbage collection is done by using delete(by programmer himself)). Which languages are you comfortable with ? Given a project, how will you decide the language to be chosen for development. Round 3 Communication between threads. Basic code for semaphore. Resolve Busy waiting. How do Processes communicate. What is the fastest way ?(Shared Memory communication: requires changes in Page Table). Difference between paging and segmentation. Internal fragmentation. When will you prefer paging over segmentation and vice-versa ? List the four conditions for deadlock. Explain hold and wait. How will you prevent deadlock by preventing Circular wait to happen ? Explain floyd-warshall algorithm. When will you prefer dijkstra over floyd-warshall. (consider the time complexity). Discussed about the posting list creation in Information Retrieval project. What are command line arguments ? Where are they stored in memory ? Best time complexity reached by any sorting algorithm irrespective of data. How can you improvise if data is within some range. Explain counting sort. Explain radix sort. Deletion in BST. Prove that after deletion, by your algorithm, the BST property is still maintained. Explain topological sort ? necessary conditions for graph to be topologically sortable ? Give algorithm. Given a complete k-ary tree, prove that the height of tree will be O(log_k n) Round 4 Design a layer which acts as an interface to OS layer and DBMS layer. What functionalities will you provide in this layer. (Hint: Read from table and write to table) |  DBMS       | | your_layer | | OS          | | Hardware  | (Hint: Reading/Writing from/to HDD is significantly slower than Reading/Writing from/to Main Memory, so maintain a buffer in Main Memory).  When will you flush the data from Main memory buffer to HDD. On what basis will you decide the size of this buffer ? (Hint: Reading/Writing from/to HDD is done in units of Sectors, so size of buffer should depend on sector size, also more is the main memory allowed, faster will be processing, so will depend on size of RAM). HR Why oracle ? Why US ? Why not Masters ? APPS/ST ?P.S: Any comments asking the solutions for any of the above questions will not be entertained. 