If there had definitely been a global flood, as depicted in the Bible, what form would the supporting scientific evidence take?
Seawater covers about 71% of the earth’s surface. If the glaciers and polar ice caps were to melt, the sea would cover cities like New York and Tokyo. Geologists studying the landscape of the northwestern United States believe that as many as 100 ancient catastrophic floods once washed over the area. One such flood is said to have roared through the region with a wall of water 2,000 feet high, traveling at 65 miles an hour—a flood of 500 cubic miles of water, weighing more than two trillion tons. Similar findings have led other scientists to believe that a global flood is a distinct possibility. The Genesis account tells us the precise year, month, and day when the Deluge began, when and where the ark came to rest, and when the earth dried off. Details about the ark are also precise—the layout, the measurements, and the material used to build it. Fables, by contrast, are usually vague in their descriptions. Two genealogical accounts in the Bible testify that Noah was a real person. (1 Chronicles 1:4; Luke 3:36) Both Ezra and Luke, who compiled these genealogies, were careful researchers. Luke traced Jesus Christ’s lineage to Noah. References to Noah or the Flood were made by the prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel and by the Christian apostles Paul and Peter.—Isaiah 54:9; Ezekiel 14:14, 20; Hebrews 11:7;1 Peter 3:19, 20; 2 Peter 2:5. Jesus Christ referred to the Flood, saying: “Just as it occurred in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the Son of man: they were eating, they were drinking, men were marrying, women were being given in marriage, until that day when Noah entered into the ark, and the flood arrived and destroyed them all.” (Luke 17:26, 27) The apostle Peter foretold that there would come “ridiculers” who would scoff at what the Bible says. “According to their wish,” Peter wrote, “this fact escapes their notice, that . . . the world of [Noah’s] time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water.” Read more: Was the Flood of Noah’s Day Really Global? Noah and the Flood-Fact, Not Fiction 