If there had definitely been a global flood, as depicted in the Bible, what form would the supporting scientific evidence take?
In addition to all the other hyper-obvious silliness about it, the seamanship perspective alone shows so many ridiculous holes in the story that, were everything else about it true, this alone would be enough to sink it without a trace. A wooden ship that is 450 feet long. Just in case you can't visualize what that means, Jack Aubrey's HMS 'Surprise' (Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World) was just under 180' long at 500 tons, 136' in deck length, and carried a complement of about 200 men - and it took nearly all of them, working in watches, to run her. Now, let's add a basic fact about scaling ships: the volume of a ship grows as (approximately) a cube of its length. To demonstrate: 'Surpise', at 136' on deck was a ship of 500 tons displacement; 'Wyoming' (the largest wooden ship actually known to have been built), at 350' on deck, displaced 10,000 tons. (At that length, she was unable to sustain the torsional loads in rough weather and so foundered and sank with the loss of all hands.) The Ark was supposed to be MUCH bigger than that. The 'Wyoming', for example, required 4,000 tons of construction materials, about 400 skilled craftsmen - and the latest technological developments and resources of our entire civilization to build. Much of her weight was structural iron - as it had to be, simply to keep her from breaking up as soon as she was launched. But there was no iron at the time that Noah was supposed to have built his Ark; in fact, despite it being called "the Bronze Age", there was really no bronze - all that was available was copper, which could barely be worked in quantities large enough to make a sword, and certainly nothing larger. Given its malleability, it wasn't something that could be used in shipbuilding... so we're down to pure wooden construction, with rope and trenails (at best) to pin together the members of this ship. Frankly, at that level of technology, NO ocean-worthy vessel of any size could be built. For comparison, I'll note that the first large ships supposedly built after the Ark (very poorly documented, with most of the measurements being rough estimates) began appearing about 2400 years later - and all of these were river craft. No ocean-going vessel of any great size in known to us until another 12oo years passed - and almost all of these were in the 50' range and below. I could go on - e.g., the net tonnage (carrying capacity) of ships built of wood, the fact that it was supposed to be caulked with pitch (something that only works with small boats), its height of 45' split into three levels (but what about the giraffes?), its lack of even a cockpit (the entire crew stayed inside the whole time) and thus propulsion or steering (nobody to work the sails or helm!), which meant that it could never be directed anywhere... TL;DR: there just ain't no cheese down that tunnel, nor even a smell of it. 