If there had definitely been a global flood, as depicted in the Bible, what form would the supporting scientific evidence take?
In Genesis  7:11 and 8:2  the source of the water is described as coming from fountains of the deep and sky.  In Genesis 7:20 "Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail:  and all the mountains covered." This means that the earth became a 'water world'. The deepest parts of the ocean are now 14 miles  under water.  Therefore the deserts and human structures are covered in up to 7 miles of water. In Genesis 8:3 "And this water returned from off the earth continually:"  There is List of the oldest buildings in the world that would either have been washed away or show signs of being submerged and the hydraulic action of subsequent currents as this water drained away. Like  Shahr-e Sukhteh a settlement Fort constructed of clay and mud in 3200 BCE in Iran. Land locked lakes or depressions  (like Crater Lake in Oregon or Meteor Crater in Arizona) would show evidence of once being submerged under a global ocean. The volume of this water would be far greater than the current volume of water in the worlds oceans, seas and rivers combined because it covered the entire earth and the curved geometry of a sphere (consider that doubling the radius of a sphere increases it volume by 8 times). This would imply that there is a vast ocean of water under the earth's crust over 10 miles deep (we now have to contain the volume of this waters in a smaller annular radial volume that is below the deepest holes we have dug - Kola Superdeep Borehole, Al Shaheen Oil Field, Sakhalin-I, Bertha Rogers). This vast ocean would cause refractory effects in seismological data of S-waves and P-waves. It would be part of every model for earthquake prediction and commercial oil-well and mining models.  In the biosphere this event would be etched into the DNA of every living organism. Using these techniques we have been able to identify 5 extinction events. The latest occurred about 65 000 000 BCE , well before the earliest evidence of homo sapiens (~200 000 BCE) and, 4 orders of magnitude longer ago than the time of Noah (~3000 BCE). All verifiable extinction events seem to have had their origin in tectonic activity (perhaps triggered by meteor impacts) that blocked out sunlight (seen as a layer of sulfurous  ashes). None seem to have been due to a recent global flooding (global coral reef death and and layer of hydrolyzed carbonates and carbohydrates in sub-surface soils and clays of the worlds forest and grasslands. At depths measured in mile the effects of osmosis on surface dwelling plants would be catastrophic). 