Why is e-commerce such a hot area in venture capital now?
There is little to add to Elizabeth Knopf answer, but capturing and capitalizing on the interest graph shouldn't be forgotten. The recent investments in product discovery platforms show that betting on capturing buying intent is currently hot. The consumers need to discover products through people whose taste they admire is growing. By sharing their product likes & tastes, brands can see which consumers have pre-stated their interest into their product. The consumer advantage? Brands can only sell & promote the products that have been curated by the users, which increases relevance and thus the overall shopping experience. However, fusing product discovery with a demand driven marketplace is happening as we speak with players like Fancy, Wanelo and We Heart It. The real reason why e-commerce is such a hot area is the ability to predict buying intent. While numerous interest graphs are created on each platform, brands can easily measure the interest for their product. Starting with the smallest graphs and steadily measure the interest from the larger graphs. Based on its interest, brands can create a ripple effect by offering the interest graphs an incentive to spread the word. However, consumers will only do this if they really like the product, since with each endorsement they put their taste making skills at stake. Influence thus becomes the currency of the social web, which brands are keen to invest in. Nonetheless, what brands often forgot, is when consumers help each other to discover new products, they won’t have a say in the product discovery experience. Sharing a product will become a form of self-expression, since it embodies a style that you want to represent within your interest graph. Product discoveries thus help the users to brand themselves. The value perception of a product will therefore not be derived from the DNA of a brand, but on the taste making skills of the person who recommended this product. The reason why VC's are thus betting on e-commerce involves capturing and capitalizing on the “interest graph. By selling services to brands that help them identify the key influencers, stay close to the product discovery experience and, more importantly, link intent to purchases. 