Why is e-commerce such a hot area in venture capital now?
In many developing markets like India and China, the penetration of the Internet is increasing rapidly, thus making a lot more new consumers accessible to e-commerce companies. The winners or leaders in those markets have not yet been declared, and there is an equal opportunity for many players to become the dominant brand. Investors are therefore funding ventures that they feel have the right teams to create large businesses. Here are a few reasons why there is an active interest among investors to back e-commerce ventures. In most developing markets, where the physical store networks are not yet well-penetrated, e-commerce provides customers access to goods that are difficult for them to currently procure locally E-commerce therefore expands markets Electronic stores with central warehousing, or even limited distribution warehousing, makes it possible for companies to service customers in locations across the country in the countries they operate in i.e. scope for scale It allows online retailers to offer a much wider choice, thus creating a business case for long-tail items as well [i.e. many, many items which sell in smaller volumes and therefore are not practical for physical stores to stock] Once e-commerce companies acquire customers, there is an opportunity to expand into adjacent as well as parallel businesses. Adjacent businesses are opportunities to sell related goods/service to existing customers - e.g. an online store selling school stuff to parents later expanding to also sell college admission forms, or learning courses, etc. Parallel businesses are things that you could do using existing central resources and infrastructure to expand into other categories or audiences - e.g. the online brand selling school stuff to parents now leveraging their supply-chain, logistics infrastructure, people resources and sourcing capabilities of buying stationery items to expand to sell office stuff to companies] Read more articles on the Virtual Learning Center of The Hatch: http://thehatch.in/virtual-learn... 