Why is e-commerce such a hot area in venture capital now?
I won't try to answer "Why is ecommerce such a hot area..." since Elizabeth Knopf  gave such an epic answer. But I do think addressing "...in venture capital" is worth it since it may speak to a misperception both about the VC industry as well as if entrepreneurs should factor market hotness into decisions about their companies. There is an assumption, often by younger folks who think the world must be more rational than it actually is, that the venture industry works via inductive reasoning. You may imagine a team of MBAs poring over spreadsheets, reading analyst reports, following key economic indicators, and brainstorming scenarios over whiteboards in order to form theses to give the fund proprietary insight into what the future "hot" markets are.  And yes, some funds do a little of this to give them a starting point. But the reality is more prosaic.  VCs have to be reactive by definition since they can only invest in opportunities that walk in their door.  They invest when they see great teams addressing great opportunities.  And they usually see them after they have already started to prove out the opportunity. So, if you think you are seeing lots of VC investment in e-commerce, it is because VCs are seeing lots of good e-commerce companies.  VC investment is a symptom of a good market, not a cause.  It is an output, not an input.  And it is a trailing indicator, not a leading one. Yes, the VC industry as a whole can get overexcited about markets which results in overinvestment (the "lemming effect" that Keith Rabois mentions).  But again, that is an aftereffect of a number of good companies popping up.  The best VCs get the best companies early in the wave, and the rest of the industry then scrambles to get a lower quality "play" in that market, often selecting from the leavings or paying huge prices in later rounds. Which can make "hotness" a trailing indicator of markets that entrepreneurs should focus on.  By the time a critical mass of companies get formed, grow, get investment, then make Techcrunch or Venture Beat, you are often a few years into the wave and the huge opportunities may be gone.  This is where the "X for Y" phenomenon comes from. So remember, VCs: Don't create markets - larger technology, economic, and societal forces do that. Don't produce companies - entrepreneurs do. Don't decide what is going to be hot - they recognize patterns from the companies coming in the door. So I generally recommend that entrepreneurs not let VC hotness be much of an input into decisions about your company.  Find an opportunity that you think is hot and pursue it.  The VCs will be there if you prove it out. 