★Is it worth it for a startup to buy a great domain name for $500,000, given an initial $1M investment from an angel?
One advice I would give is not to fall in love with a domain name. Are you sure you exhausted all the possibilities? Do you really want to have a domain with 4 characters (as mint.com has)? Why not 5 or 6 or 7? Is it a CVCV (consonant-vowel-consonant-vowel) or another combination? Is it a keyword or a brand name? Does that domain mean something or it's a just made up word? How about that less expensive domain name? How it's structured (consonants,vowels)? Did you do a research to see how much a domain name in related to what you want was sold after market? How much do you actually know about domaining? It seems to me that the owner of that domain got you by the balls (if I may say that). He felt you got in love with it and now is squeezing the last drop from you. Did you negotiate directly, did you tell him upfront who you are and what you wanna do? If you did you you might have just encouraged the owner to ask for more... Who is the owner? Is a known domainer or not well know? A known domainer knows how to negotiate stuff and if you laid down your cards upfront then there is not much you could do. In this case maybe would have been better to get an intermediary to negotiate for you, not disclosing who you are (Facebook did that, for example, when they bought socialgraph.com domain name for a mere $1,300 - guess how much the owner would have asked if he would have known it's Facebook which wanted the domain?) Somebody said to execute and worry about the domain later. Well, partly it's true but you have to think that if you become successful then the domain you want will become much more expensive (case: Facebook itself. It paid $200,000 for facebook.com after it was clear they are becoming successful. Groupon paid $250.000 for groupon.com. By contrast, Twitter paid just $7,000 for Twitter.com, way before they knew or the world knew they will become successful.). You should really look into other possible brands you want to have. Regarding giving equity...I guess that becomes a new trend in this domain world. Candy.com sold to a company by a well known domainer who asked $3 million cash AND 3% of the company. He got that. There are 9 million monthly searches for "candy" keyword on Google. Guess who is on the one of the three positions on the first page? Yes, Candy.com. I bet they get a lot of visitors only because that. Free marketing. Those millions spent in acquiring the name may very well worth it. Is your domain searched like that, Jack? What is the market where your company wants to make a splash? But it's not always the case when a founder wants to give equity. Sometime ago somebody asked if I give him one domain name I have (I didn't buy that domain name to re-sell but to develop into something). After listening what he wanted to do (which was pretty much in the same field I wanted to develop that name) I asked for equity (not even 15%) or even rental. He denied both and walked away...oh well. In your place I would try to look at other options too...look closer and remember about negotiations (and about falling in love with a domain name). Then, after you got all possible options, decide. As a bonus for you, here are the top 500 domain sales ever: http://www.domaining.com/topsales  (do you think your domain would belong to this list?)