★Is it worth it for a startup to buy a great domain name for $500,000, given an initial $1M investment from an angel?
$500,000 is a helluva lot of cash in absolute terms, and 1/2 your available capital.  I tend to agree with Yishan... the fact that you're even asking the question in this manner conveys a certain amount of naiveté, and while not certain failure is quite possible if this is your primary consideration for where to spend money. I had a small amount of related experience with 2 other domain transactions, Mint.com and SlideShare.com. while both of those were painful but modestly rational, in general I don't know that 6-figure domain transactions are worth it. it's possible on the low-end they can accomplish an alternate method of customer acquisition for a reasonable cost, if amortized over a few years.  this should be contrasted against other methods of customer acquisition, and the costs of hiring people who could add other value to the startup. while individual situations merit further discussion, in most cases paying anything more than 5,000-50,000 in cash, or 25,000-250,000 in deferred equity is probably a waster of time and money. some evaluation criteria for this question: 1) what's a realistic assessment of type-in domain traffic for the domain in question (how many people would naturally type in the letters), and what is the differential cost in the above for a short/memorable domain vs one that isn't 2) what would the equivalent amount of users/traffic cost in paid marketing if you didn't get it for "free", and how often will users return based on remembering the name vs not, and what is that retention worth. 3) how much capital do you have available and what does it mean for remaining capital if you use it on this one source, also are you buying the domain in cash or equity, and is it immediate or deferred. 4) what period of time is the transaction being amortized over, and how much incremental traffic / users would you get by owning the domain vs buying users vs working on other features / campaigns to accomplish same.