★Is it possible that someone at GoDaddy stole my domain name?I was about to buy domain yesterday and its been taken already. It wasn't an easy one to remember so the chances of this being a coincidence are small, and there has been cases of domain registrars that steal domain names.
I think it would be good for a GoDaddy rep to respond to these Domain Name Front Running (DNFR) allegations. In their absence, I'll reference a blog entry from a GoDaddy employee from 13 months ago. FWIW, the suspicion has crossed my mind a number of times, with GoDaddy and other domain registrars, but I wouldn't have adequate tools nor access to pro tools used by registrars, to prove it. I'd like to believe Richard Merdinger's portrayal below, if not on ethical grounds that it's just good business practice not to compete with your customers. I follow the adage, "trust, but verify." (PS: I am a GoDaddy customer but do not work for the company.) Another fabulous resource on DNFR is from my colleague Michael Cyger, who puts out great interviews and articles for the domaining community. This article is particularly helpful if you should share my mild paranoia about DNFRs: How To Prevent Domain Name Front Running Something that I do to avoid worrying about registrars, estimators, other domainers, trademark lawyers or third-parties getting wind of my awesome domain-name discoveries: 1) I don't talk about (or write about) specific domain names that I have under consideration. 2) I use Terminal Services to perform whois searches. In bypassing the website, there is much less chance of the whois search being logged. To do this, find an app on your PC or Mac called "Terminal," open it up and type in "whois example . com" (less the spaces before and after the dot and substituting your query for the example . com placeholder. If the result is "domain not found" that means it is available to be purchased. If the domain is worth purchasing, it is worth purchasing right away. Purchase it while you can, because you never know who might be in a mind meld with you right then! All the best. Feel free to contact me with any questions you may have. Bob@Bobs-Domains.com [What follows is from a GoDaddy employee. BTW, there is a table missing from this reference that can be seen by going to the source, which you can find here: Front Running: Debunking the Myth] FRONT RUNNING: DEBUNKING THE MYTH by RICHARD MERDINGER on AUGUST 9, 2012 A blogger recently accused Go Daddy of misusing customer domain name search activity for profit. The process is called domain name front running and it means a registrar monitors customer searches and then registers the domain names for their own purposes. Let me say, unequivocally, Go Daddy never has and never will front run domain names. Ever. So why would someone believe they experienced front running? Sheer volume. As the world’s largest registrar, the volume of domain name activity, both in terms of availability searches and registrations we see, is significant. Go Daddy performs tens of millions of availability checks for our customers each day, many of which are searches for the same domain name by different customers. In fact, more than six percent of customer searches for available domain names are performed by more than one person each day. This overlap in domain name requests happens every day. As unique as customers believe their domain name ideas are, there’s more “innovation collision” than many people realize. With so many domain name registrations happening every day, there is a good probability a domain name you searched for is also being searched by someone else. We take our customers’ privacy and intellectual property seriously. To protect data from being intercepted over the general Internet, our website is protected by SSL Encryption. This prevents electronic eavesdropping on all transactions relating to domain searches and purchases. Even our internal availability and registrations systems are sequestered into secure networking environments for an added measure of privacy assurance. The same domain names are often searched by multiple people in a short period of time. The example we are using above is not an exception. As the Internet expands, so will the competition for domain name registrations, and situations like this will happen more and more often.