★Should I change my domain name?
Despite your admonition not to suggest this, you need to get an SEO expert to look at your site and figure out what is wrong. Try to find one with bonafide expertise and avoid the snake oil version. I say this because it is definitely not the case that an exact match domain name is necessarily 'the only reason' you are getting beat in search results. While there is some SEO lift to be gotten from an exact match domain, it is no way, no how a powerful enough an effect to overcome a well engineered site with 2,000 pages of relevant content (it is relevant content, right?). There are many, many factors that contribute to search result rankings. It is not possible to reduce it down to simply the domain name as the primary cause without careful analysis of the factors involved. For instance, an often overlooked factor is that Google favors sites that load quickly. If their site loads a lot faster than yours, that's a plus in their favor. Google also tracks user engagement in the form of what people do when they click on a particular search result. Do the user 'bounce' off the destination site right back to the search results or do they stick with the site for a while and either never come back or come back after a longish time. The implication being if they bounce, they didn't find what they were looking for, but if they stayed the site, they did. And the longer they stay, the more useful info they found. Over the course of tens or hundreds or thousands of visitors, they compare results - search by search, destination page by destination page. The pages that get the best user traction get the higher rankings. So I haven't seen your site, but one possibility may be that with 2,000 pages, it is harder to find what people are looking for. Possibly many don't even try and bounce right back into the search results. Whereas with only 4 pages, it may be that this is easier for users to digest and therefore, they stay longer - even incrementally longer is enough to push them ahead of you over time. If you care to share links to the sites in question, my guess is that you would get some people who could give you a rough idea of the problem fairly quickly.