★How do you sell a brand-able domain name?After having deadpooled our web service, we'd love to know what would be the best way to sell our domain + brand, and where we could get the best price (if applicable).
Selling a domain and selling a brand are two different things; just like there's a distinction between selling a piece of real estate and selling the business you operated at the site. Since domains are my area of expertise, I'll limit my answer to the domain part of this question. As Mircea Goia pointed out, you can always use a domain broker to sell the name. However, in order to get the best price, you should leverage your brand to increase the value of a domain. Yes, there are businesses looking to buy branded domain names--startups for example. If you have a nice domain name and a simple brand name (easy to remember) but generic (could be applied to any business), you'll attract more interest from buyers. If the name in question is something that specifies a certain industry you have less general interest, but could generate more targeted interest. You said it was a web services company--does the domain include the word "Web" "Net" or something that implies it's a web based company by name alone? Those are worth more to other potential web services companies than a generic name because they communicate site content and would be add to SEO for another site based on web services. You shouldn't completely abandon the domain as it is now--keep content up, to provide traffic and keyword ranking. When domain investors look at domains, they want to know if there's an established traffic pattern or search engine rank for it. If you completely shut down the site, you'll lose traffic and search traffic, which will make the domain less valuable. You could also consider approaching any competitors to sell the name. When Borders Books & Music went into bankruptcy, competitor Barnes & Noble bought all of Borders' domains and IP at auction in order to redirect established targeted traffic to their own site. If you have a good client base, you could offer this kind of redirect to a competitor.