★Why do so many Chinese websites use numbers in their domain names?For example Chinese mail services 163.com and 126.com.
I agree with Dashan's answer. And I would like to add an interesting thing I have observed. As a native Chinese who moved to the US a few years ago, I used to be really confused by some US phone numbers like 1-800-WALMART. How am I supposed to type WALMART on a telephone keypad? Later, someone told me how it worked, but I still couldn't understand why. To a Chinese, numbers are much easier to say and remember, why bother converting them into letters? Now I understand. For English speakers, each digit is a word, and Walmart is also a word. One word is of course easier than seven. However, for a Chinese speaker, Walmart is not a word, but a meaningless combination of foreign symbols. Converting digits into letters only makes things much harder, not easier. So Chinese speakers do exactly the opposite. If they could convert walmart.com into 5284.com, they would. Also, Chinese pronunciation of numbers is shorter. Counting 1 to 10 is much faster than in English. "Yi er san si wu liu qi ba jiu shi" vs. "One two three four five six seven eight nine ten". As a result, a Chinese speaker can more quickly say a long string of numbers, and therefore more easily remember it. Almost any Chinese kid can give you multiplication results up to 9x9 in no time, because they simply learn all of them by heart. 7x8=56 is "七八五十六 (qi ba wu shi liu)", not so hard even for a child. So, which one do you think a Chinese would prefer, 163.com or netease.com? As Joe Yang has mentioned, the most popular instant messaging software in China, QQ, uses a long string of numbers (up to 11 digits) as the login name. People seem to remember them without problems. Another interesting analysis is the most common passwords. Around the world, only 10 out of 25 most common passwords of 2013 are all numbers. Most of the others are short English words or phrases like 'password' and 'iloveyou'. While in China, 9 of 10 or 18 of 25 most common passwords are all numbers or nearly all numbers like "a123456789". Only 4 of top 100 are pure English words/phrases and 3 are Pinyin.