★What technology will replace domain names?Domain names are a dated and flawed way of defining and distributing content on the web.   Domain brokers and unfair use as well as legitimate conflicts regarding ambiguous names is just a fraction of the problem. Non-governmental control over domain names, technical issues and so forth makes it even worse. Something will replace domain names in the coming years - what do you think will?
Tl;dr : With whatever limited understanding of DNS I have, I don't see any technology replacing DNS in near future. I found your question very interesting. We all know issues withDomain name. But I never thought what technology could replace it. This whole TCP/IP and DNS stuff looks so perfect it is hard to think of any technology replacing it. But whatever the change, it will have impact on OS level, browser level, and DNS server level at least. Lets revisit why we need Domain Names. Domain name out of many serve following main purposes: Easy to remember names rather than numeric IP addresses. Host can change the IP without impacting much, as people can still access the site by the same domain name. A domain name can be mapped to multiple IPs. It helps in fault-tolerance and load distribution. It helps in Mail exchange. Now let us see what kind of issues we would like to address: Domain parking: A domain name without an IP address. It has its own good purpose, but few people purchase a domain name in hope someone would need that name and sell them for higher price. Domain name front running: In my understanding it is slightly different than domain parking. Because here registrar itself is involved. Misuse of administrative power: Sometimes ISP send request for unregistered domain page to their ad site or some other default site. I have read that few nationalized governments, who have control on their country's TLD sell domain names at very unreasonable price. Legal conflicts, misleading names, security issues, political issues. List could be long. So how we can address this. First whatever the solution, I don't see it happening in near future. IPv6 couldn't replace more than 1% of IPv4 in past 6 years. DNS issues are not only technological. Coming up with new DNS replacing technology which addresses legal, political, bad-people-intention, bad-implementation, security, and technological issues across the globe is not simple. I tried to think a lot couldn't think of any. Also I searched a lot, and didn't find any good article or research paper discussing future or replacement of DNS. If you get any potential ideas or some relevant article/paper, please do let us know.