★Should I change my domain name?
You had me at "My domain name is the name of my company." The very best domain name you can have is your company name. Exact match domain names - like "mathstutorharrogate" - have limited advantages in Google's search algorithm, and those advantages will continue to diminish over time. This is because Google is getting much smarter about distinguishing between branded searches and non-branded searches (which is fundamentally why exact match domains show up in results higher than they otherwise should). However, in the here and now, I'd stick with what you have. It's a clever, brandable name, and you're on the right path to long-term success. You've invested in content, and that's the key to gaining and keeping great search engine rankings. If you're looking for some advice on how to improve your rankings, my best suggestions are: 1. Invest in a website. When I look at what you have now, it's not really clear that you're offering tutoring services. It looks like a personal blog. Check out http://www.sylvanlearning.com/tu... and http://www.mathnasium.com/. They're up-front about what they do, it's easy to find contact/location info, etc. If you're spending hundreds of pounds a year on clicks, and sending those clicks to this page: http://www.dotmaths.com/maths-tu... You're wasting money. The photo is clever, but it's not immediately obvious. There's no button, no easy to find phone number, etc. The landing page needs a LOT of work. 2. Organize local events and publicity. Teaching poor or disadvantaged kids math is a "feel good" story. If you organized a monthly or quarterly event with free math tutoring, you could get the local news organizations to cover the story. They'd probably link to your website, which would be very helpful in terms of rankings. You can also publicize your event and gain links. Create a "upcoming free tutoring events" page on your site. Then, contact the local schools/local math teachers and tell them about it. They'll put it in newsletters, share it on the school website, etc. All great links, all of which boost rankings. 3. Stop worrying about rankings. Too often small business owners assume that higher rankings = more customers, but that's not always the case. A quality website would probably improve your business. Some clever marketing would probably improve your business. Soliciting referrals from your existing clients would probably improve your business. Etc. It's understandably annoying when you see a thin site outranking yours because of the domain name, but that's not really important here. What's important is making sure you "capture" everyone who visits your site as a client. You don't need rankings - you need a better site.