★How important is Domain name?because i think fab bought fab.com for just under 6 Million dollars but fancy only got http://thefancy.com so is it worth spending so much money on the correct domain because I think one of the reasons fab.com got so popular was because of it';s domain because it helped the brand so much. but how does a startup spend so much on a domain when it is in the early stages of development?
Your startup's name is important and you should should invest time (but not necessarily money) ensuring that you choose a good one. Color.com was reportedly purchased for $350K [1], but then again they also did raise $41M so they had some money to throw around. If you're a well-funded startup and can afford to pay top dollar for a premium one word domain name, by all means do so. Color.com is a great domain name (a single common English word), but you've got to ask yourself whether they're that much better off than if they had picked up an available domain name like ColorNode.com for $12. Regardless of your financial situation, there are a few things you want to keep in mind when considering a domain name: Your startup's name and domain name should match. You'll often see startups choose a product name but then choose add "Get" before or "HQ" after it because the exact domain name is registered. For example, when Dropbox started they used GetDropbox.com, but later had to purchase Dropbox.com because something like 10% of their traffic navigated directly to Dropbox.com, which they did not own. Save yourself some trouble and pick a a startup name whose exact match domain name you can register or buy before you launch your startup. You should use a .COM. Similar to how you want your domain name to match your product's name, you want to own the .COM because that's still what most non-technical people will assume you own. You're going to miss out on traffic because, like the Dropbox example, most people will head straight to yourproductname.com. Your startup's name should be easy to spell. Another common technique is for startups to pick a name and then use some spelling hack to adjust it so that they can get a name that's available. For example, Bountii.com, Snipd.com, etc. There have been a few successful startups that have used this technique (Flickr.com), but for every company that has gone this route and been happy with it there are probably 20 that have wished they'd chosen something simpler. Not only will you have to spell it out every time you tell someone it ("I run a startup called called Bountii -- that's B-O-U-N-T-I-I dot com") but you'll also miss out on customers who can't remember how you spelled your name ("Was it two T's or two I's or both?"). Similarly, avoid numbers (people won't remember whether they're spelled out or not) and avoid hyphens (people won't remember that you have them). By following these three guidelines, you'll avoid most of the problems that founders encounter when choosing a domain name. Ultimately though your name is probably not going to make your startup. It certainly doesn't hurt to have a great name, but your ability to solve a problem and gain traction is going to have a much greater impact on your long term success than your startup's name will. [1] Color.com Was Acquired For $350,000 (The Domain Name, That Is) | TechCrunch [2] Dropbox Acquires The Domain Everyone Thought It Had: Dropbox.com | TechCrunch