★What technology will replace domain names?Domain names are a dated and flawed way of defining and distributing content on the web.   Domain brokers and unfair use as well as legitimate conflicts regarding ambiguous names is just a fraction of the problem. Non-governmental control over domain names, technical issues and so forth makes it even worse. Something will replace domain names in the coming years - what do you think will?
I've been asked to answer so I will, but you won't like it... I disagree with the assertion in the question. We've all experienced the points raised, and yes, they may be problems inherent in the concept of leasing out domain names on a first come first served basis. However, friendly, relatively easy to remember, brand-able names are the only viable solution to finding servers. It's a solution which was introduced because the real address, the IP address (such as 65.55.255.255) are not friendly, easy to remember, and brand-able. (There are other benefits, such as the ability to redirect a domain name to a new IP address without every user having to know the new IP address.) Of course, the provision of multiple TLDs does allow alternate methods of allocation. For example, each country has it's own TLD and within that many countries allocate specific purposes for the second level domain names, each of which may be allocated in different ways. In the UK, for instance there is .co.UK for commercial web sites allocated on first come first served, .edu.UK for universities, .org.UK, for organisations, and .ltd.UK where each domain name is reserved for the formally incorporated company with that exact unique name (no abbreviations or trading names), avoiding any conflicts. I believe that there are also plans to allocate domain names based on legal trademarks, although they themselves are only applicable within specific jurisdictions and industries (for example when Apple moved into music, it had to accept that Apple Core owned the trademark in that industry, and I can almost guarantee that there are multiple Acme trademarks around the world.). It's possible that a more categorised system may be made available via a new TLD, perhaps using industry and sub industry as second and third level domains, before people can apply for specific domains under those categories, for example, 'microsoft.software.it.ind', or 'fox.news.media.Ind', avoiding clashes with alternative brands such as 'fox.mints.confectionary.ind'. However, I don't think you will see the end of the established domain name system, and for the premier TLD(s) such as .com, we have a free market where domain names are valued based on demand. It's a tried and tested system, where the most valuable domains will inevitably be acquired by the most economically productive use of that name, at a negotiated cost. The market decides that cost in the same way as any other resource. That said, we've all seen how innovation and successful business strategy can make a success of a 10 buck domain name, like, say, Twitter.com, or Tumblr.com. You don't have to compete with those with deep pockets if you have an innovative business.