★Is a $20,000 domain name too much for a startup?
I've worked with a lot of entrepreneurs asking themselves the same question when bootstrapping. Tonight I received an email from an entrepreneur who desires a name that is +$20k. He has decided that kind of capital is best suited to pay salaries and generally to grow the business.  He has already taken a path that is often encouraged and chosen an alternative to that "dream name". However he calls his company "dreamname" . . .so people naturally assume he's DreamName. com  and he's something more like GetDreamName .com .    He's smart in that he realizes that his customers are confusing his brand and he's losing traffic and brand equity.  He's also smart in that he realizes another thing : As he grows his business, the need for this domain name isn't going to go away and, more importantly, that the price of the domain is only going up.   There's one other contingency is that someone else comes along and buys it and starts an entirely different/better business. I don't know the status of your business but if you go with that oft recommended path (that I'm not saying is wrong) of using an alternative domain, you can proceed and become successful or you can fail miserably and not have cost yourself $20k.  If you are a success, you may end up costing yourself more money down the road and even worse you may never get that name and someone else might.  The worst case scenario is you are a success and now you are busy changing your name.  Here's a story of Jaimie Siminoff and why/how he switched names …http://techcrunch.com/2008/04/22...  Many businesses end up paying later for that dream domain.  Facebook used to be Thefacebook.  Twitter used to be twttr. There are many other examples.  As your company grows, the dream domain name costs more . . .. but I'm sure everything else ( talent, travel, rent, etc) will too.  Just try to plan it out. In situations where there is "champagne taste on a beer budget", I encourage entrepreneurs to think creatively, like they do with most situations.  Consider equity as compensation for the domain.  Consider a lease or lease with an option.  You don't need to spend $20k cash now.  If this name is going to have an immediate impact like bring in traffic and new customers immediately or shorten your runway (which domain names can), you may want to consider buying it outright.   I'd love to know more. Let me know if I can help further and sorry for being late to this discussion. :)