★What are the pros and cons of a startup with a domain name that actually means something?
As I look at the websites that I frequent most, it seems that the ones I feel comfortable with are those that tell me what their function is in part of the name. i.e. Facebook YouTube Wikipedia PayPal Microsoft However, some sites I frequent, the names have absolutely nothing to do with what they do, but the name has become synonymous with who they are.  i.e. Google Twitter Amazon eBay GoDaddy Yelp I would say the pros are that your name will be easy to remember and recognize in the beginning if it is something that signifies what the website is supposed to accomplish. However, I think in the long run, not nessarily a made up name, but an unusual, easy, catchy name is the better way to go.  None of the names above are just a mishmash of letters with some dots thrown in here and there for fun.  I hate websites like that. Also, in looking at the list above I see one word names or two words turned into one word names. Now, take a website name like Tumblr.  I don't like misspelled words.  I don't mind something like Nite or Krispy but a blatant misspelling drives me nuts.  Secondly I have no idea what the name means.  I don't know what the site does, and I have no reason to go there to figure it out.  OK, curiosity got the better of me, I went there.  OK a few clicks here and there and I see that it is billed as "The easiest way to blog."  Aren't Blogspot, Blogger, and WordPress already out there?  Don't their names kinda let you know what they are for? Let's look at photo sharing sites.  Webshots, Photobucket, Flickr (here we are with the missing E again...) dotPhoto.  The names all pretty much have to do with photography.  I think it depends on what the website is about but more importantly who the website is marketing.  I just looked up sites that allow you to text message from your computer instead of your cell phone.  Most of them have "text" in the name along with other stuff.  i.e. onlinetextmessage.  Personally, considering who will be using these sites, I would go with something more text acronym related but without the word text in the name. So based upon the trend i.e. the site Tauntr if you want a good name take the E out of Tiger...