Can a trained classical pianist easily transition to play in a rock band? Does everyone need to learn to read tabs?
Classical music is to Charles Dickens as rock music is to Stephen King. Dickens works are timeless masterpieces that provoke deep thought and reward extensive analysis of language and symbolism. Stephen King is extremely smart and his books are masterfully written, but it's better to just read the damn books than to sit around and talk about them.   So it is with rock music. Technical prowess is useful but only so far as it helps you write and perform exciting, memorable music.     Chances are that with your classical training you have all the chops you need to play rock music. The classically trained musicians I've played with often dazzle and surprise because they have a wealth of ideas and knowledge.   So many rock songs draw their melodies and progressions straight out of classical music. So many famous guitarists (RANDY RHOADS) were classically trained.   But "Crazy Train" is a great rock song because it gallops along like a runaway train. The basic chord progression for Crazy Train is fairly simple. Many cover bands pull off a decent rendition of "Crazy Train" without a guitarist nearly as talented as Randy Rhoads. Ozzy, after all, was a high school drop out, but his wailing chorus melody is truly memorable.       Anyone can play rock and roll. It's supposed to be simple, exciting, repetitive, and expressive. Technical skill is only useful as far as it helps you propel the song.   Can you play the same three chords for 5 minutes and keep it exciting? What if all three of those chords are simple fifth chords?   Can you impress people with a solo that only lasts 12 bars?   Do you have great groove? Do you have great groove at high tempos throughout a whole set?   Can you milk one or two notes / simple melodies to make them seem tremendous?   Chances are you have a huge bag of tricks to draw from given your classical training. The key is how tastefully you put those skills to use to entertain people. 