Can a trained classical pianist easily transition to play in a rock band? Does everyone need to learn to read tabs?
Unless "Tab" has changed drastically in meaning since I was a teenager, it's short for tablature, which is an alternative music notation system for guitar, where the five-line stave of standard notation is replaced with a six-line stave denoting the six strings of the guitar (bass tab also exists, with four lines), and using numbers to indicate the fret to be played. If you don't play guitar, tab is useless. If you're writing parts for a guitarist in the band, you might want to learn tablature, but if all you want to do is play your own instrument, don't bother. Can you transition from playing classical music to playing rock? Yes, it's possible, and many rock pianists have some experience of playing classical music. If you're really good and very highly trained on your instrument you might find it easier to transition, but if by "classically trained" you mean "took piano lessons" rather than "studied at the one finest music schools in the country and play in a symphony orchestra", you might be in for a rough ride. Rock music is comparatively simple in structure and harmony, but it's a completely different beast to classical music in many ways. What's going to cause you problems? No written music. I've played with plenty of trained musicians who can't do shit without sheet music. In fairness, I've met even more self-taught musicians who couldn't do anything with sheet music. If you're lucky, you'll get a scrawled chord chart that gives you a vague (possibly misleading) idea of where the chord changes are, but no guide to the rhythm or tempo, or what you ought to play while you're holding each chord. Which leads me to... A vocabulary you need to know. I'm sure classical music has it's common themes too, but rock music is based on a sort of "aural tradition" whereby players learn stock musical phrases by ear or by experience that can be applied to any number of common musical scenarios- how to play little chordal vamps on a blues chord progression for instance. Listen widely and practice ear training and you'll soon have enough of this sort of thing under your belt to be useful. A technically illiterate peer group. Most of the self-taught musicians I know have little in the way of technical vocabulary when it comes to music. Where the classical world has words for all manner of musical detail, and a highly developed system of notation for navigating through a piece, rock musicians don't, so a discussion about how to play a certain section of a particular piece may end up taking much longer than it might have otherwise. Perhaps worse is.... Misapplied or misunderstood music theory. Those of us self-trained musicians who do know a little music theory don't always know as much as we think we do, so you may well find that sometimes what a musician says you should play and what he wants to hear are two different things. Improvisation. Guaranteed to make most "classically trained" musicians shit a brick. Again, I may be underestimating your level of proficiency, but most musicians who have spend most of their playing lives following sheet music are understandably unnerved by the prospect of making it up. Between the knowledge you probably already have of scales and the stock phrases you pick up from your listening you should be able to play simple solos fairly quickly, and once you have the general idea you can run with it as far as you want to. 