I am a CS undergraduate planning to self study graph theory.Which one of the following is a better book for me?
The books in the order I came across and read them. I began with Graph Theory with Applications to Engineering and Computer Science by Narsingh Deo. This is a fairly comfortable read and you can easily breeze through half the book with very little effort. The remaining half is applied, so one can pick and choose what to read in that section. This book works great as an introductory material without being very daunting. On the other hand it lacks a lot of rigour and does not contain advanced materials. A few years later, Diestel began writing his book on graph theory and made it available online ( Graph Theory ). This book covered some interesting topics like Random Graphs and Ramsey Theory that were not covered in the first book, so I downloaded the book and started reading from it. When I joined the PhD program, I purchased Introduction to Graph Theory by Douglas West because I wanted to read about chordal graphs and matroids. The thing I liked about this book is at the end of certain sections, the author adds a small subsection called Remarks and highlights some interesting results from famous research papers. I found that quite enjoyable. Recommending one particular book is a bit problematic because my impressions of these books are coloured by my own experience described above. When I began with Narsingh Deo, my mathematical capabilities were quite poor (not that they are any good now, but it was way worse before) so Narsingh Deo was a perfect book to read at the time. By the time I reached Diestel's book, I had a better hold in probability which piqued my interest in Random Graphs and also prodded me to read Random Graphs by Béla Bollobás. My purchase of Douglas West was purely because it covered some more materials that Diestel doesn't get into. In terms of completeness, I believe Douglas West is complete and covers pretty much the entire spectrum. However, this book may be hard to get into for first timers. Having said that, given your inclinations towards mathematics and proofs, you might be comfortable with Douglas West. 