Could we as musicians consider guitar to be the hardest instrument of them all?
Negative. There are many instruments far more difficult to learn in general. The guitar is also very common and finding instruction (in print, playing along to records, teachers, bands to join, etc.) is easy. There are many factors that help the guitar be learned easily. Putting consistent effort into learning how is another issue, but the guitar itself is not a particularly difficult instrument and here's why: 1) it self-sounds, meaning all you have to do is hit a string and you hear a tone as good as the instrument can create. This is the opposite of a violin, flute and some other instruments, that require developed physical control just to get a proper rich clean tone, (bowed instruments take great practice and control of the string, bow and resin to consistently create a quality tone). 2) all the frets are in convenient place. Like a piano, all the notes are right there in front of you all positioned correctly. Almost every guitar is the same and so the notes are set up easy to learn, chords are easy to learn the fingering for and human effort level is the guage of progress, not the limitations of the instrument.  I've always found the frets a highly comfortable arrangement to engage with. After getting familiar with standard tuning, to try out alternate tunings, such as "drop-D" and "open" tunings is a major joy of discovery, it's not a hassle. 3) frets and string guages are positioned in such a way that playing a mix of high notes and low notes is done with little difficulty. I consider the guitar an instrument that grants access to a wide range of notes easier than piano. Many people have difficulty getting more than one octave range with one hand on piano, but a guitar grants you two octaves or more in one hand position. 4) getting skilled at playing melody lines, chords and learning different strumming methods and picking skills, is simply a matter of how much focus and time you are willing to spend. Nothing is stopping you. This issue of self-discipline, is the pivot point, it's where the real challenge is, it's not the guitar, it's self-discipline. I have a recommendation; keep the guitar handy. Because they are easy to play, they entice you to keep playing, and if you keep it handy, you're bound to play far more often and for longer. If you pack it up and store it away when not being played, you're just telling yourself you've quite it all together. The guitar should have a more prominent role and position in the house than the damned TV. Sell the TV, get a nice guitar stand and set your priorities!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ADDITIONAL NOTE: This may help, I don't know >>> There are two observations I consistently have when going to Open mic events, regarding guitar, and all amateurs can probably admit they've seen this too:1) youngish males playing electric guitars will quickly lose focus on the feel of the songs and developing musical possibilities and are instead obsessed with simply playing fast and loud with distortion, which becomes a permanent character trait that permanently stunts their musical progress in life. 2) females on acoustic guitars often focus almost entirely on the fingering of the chords and notes (left hand) and don't develop a precise, confident and assertive strumming/picking hand (right hand). What results, and I've seen this hundreds of times, is a very sincere performance, but one that leaves the guitar sounding only half-heartedly attended. Updated 6w ago • View Upvotes