★What are the differences between 1G, 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G?There's been an evolution in this telecommunications technology over the years, with nomenclatures like 2.5G etc. Recently, Samsung has claimed a breakthrough with 5G: Samsung claims 5G tech breakthrough What does all this actually mean? How has the technology evolved that would result in it being called "xG"?
Ok let me tell you the basic concept. Many things are taken into consideration while defining wireless generation, the techniques they use, service they provide, capacity, power, accessibility etc. Mobile generation is the result of improvement in all these factor. So what made the difference and how they were evolved?? Firstly, when wireless generation started, it was analog communication. That generation is 1G. They used various analog modulation for data transfer. Now when the communication migrated from analog to digital, the foundation of latest communication were led. Hence came 2G. I will touch only the concept to help you understand basics, so that you can easily understand the foundation. 2G: (Voice+SMS/MMS) It marked the start of digital voice communication era. Main motive of this generation was to provide secure and reliable communication channel. It implemented the concept of CDMA and GSM. Provided small data service like sms and mms. Note that 2G internet services came after the 3G estabishment. 3G:(Voice + Data) Then came the time of some decent speed internet connection and awesome voice channel. They exploited area of Wideband-CDMA(W-CDMA), provided better bandwidth and better connectivity even during motion(like in vehicle, train). There was some technical shift towards HSPA for better data communication and to maintain 4G compatibility. 4G: (Only DATA and Voice over data) Era of broadband wireless. This in the making and have been successfully deployed in only some part of the world. Best aspect of 4G is the use of data services for everything. Internet is the back bone and even voice call is done over internet. There is no separate voice channel. This allows usage of wider bandwidth in the communication channel for data. P.S:I am lucky enough to get to work in 4G. I think that's enough of basics for you.