★What is the cheapest way to have 3G access world wide?Just prepaid or monthly subscriptions.
I unlocked my iPhone and used it around the world for over a year. Many countries outside the US give you a lot more for your money. I got a prepaid sim card everywhere I went. It wasn't too hard to do, and most places I visited had prepaid data plans as well. To give you an idea, I remember one of the best deals I had was 9 EUR for a sim card with 500mb of data, 200 texts, 200 local minutes and 60 minutes for calls to the US. The only caveat was, occasionally some carries did not offer micro sims on prepaid plans (which the iPhone 4/4S needs). The solution was to simply cut the sim to the size of a micro sim. Takes about 5 minutes to do and I did not use any special sim cutter. Also use skype and buy credit or a subscription. I have unlimited calls to and from the US with a local US number so I can stay in touch with friends and family no matter where I am in the world. Cost: $30 per year for an unlimited US and Canada subscription. If you specifically are referring to data and 3G for your laptop, this also isn't too difficult. Currently in the US we expect to pay $300 for the 3G dongle/card and then around $70-$80 a month for a few gigabytes of data. You can get the card for free if you sign up for a two year contract, ouch. Around Europe, the UK, and Asia you can get a prepaid plan for a laptop 3G card which will usually cost between $19 and $49 per month. It will also most likely be a lot faster. Japan and Romania now have 43mbps 3G cards for around $30 per month. Lastly, even though you aren't on a contract the 3G card itself is often unlocked and will cost you between 0 and $30. If you plan on changing countries ever few days, then you'll want to get a sim card from a country around where you'll be (at least the same continent) and it's roaming rates will be much better than taking your card from the US and then purchasing an international plan to use in Europe or Asia.