★How well do AT&T 3G Microcells work at home?I particularly want to know whether I should be getting only one, or two, especially for a home that has multiple floors, all with bad reception
UPDATE [June 2011]: I unplugged my Microcell to power-cycle it yet again (must've been the hundredth-something time), and to my surprise, found that my phone was receiving a steady 3 bars of reception at home! I have since sold the Microcell, living happily ever after thanks to AT&T's expanded coverage! -- I've had an AT&T 3G Microcell since July 2010. For reference, I have an iPhone 4 and a broadband connection at 25mbps down and 1mbps up. I was philosophically opposed to buying this device on the grounds that I couldn't justify paying for AT&T's poor coverage when I'm already paying them a monthly service fee. I finally disregarded my principles, tossed the landline and bought one. Acquisition and setup were very straightforward. Performance, however, has not been up to par. I've experienced poor connectivity and dropped calls when within "reasonable proximity" to the device (say about 3-15 feet most times). It's next to a window, too with clear line-of-sight to the sky (for GPS lock). I have to reset it once a week, resulting in decent performance for 2-3 days, then it gets unreliable again. Keep in mind, my broadband connection is stellar and my home network is thoroughly managed and "gridlock-free" as it were. A major issue: my iPhone will latch onto the nearest cell-tower (which has 1 bar at it's strongest peaks and is sure to drop any and every call), but still report a connection to the "M-CELL" with a full 5 bars (a lie). +1 to the device (and femtocells in general) for actually reducing the radiation emitted from a mobile device since it's not (in layman's terms) "trying so hard to find a distant signal." Sure, it's non-ionizing radiation to begin with, something most experts agree is harmless to human tissue (i.e. you don't see radio and TV waves giving people cancer), but it's good to cut radiation, no matter what kind, where possible.