Why is divisibility by two (even/odd) considered an important quality for numbers? Why not divisibility by 3? Or 17?
There are many answers to this question, varying in context and mathematical sophistication. Small numbers are generally more ubiquitous than large ones, but there are deeper reasons for the importance of parity arguments in mathematics, as I will try to demonstrate. First, the simpler stuff. In real-life situations as well as in science and math, 2 is simply more common than 17, just as 8 is more common than 23,641,163. We have words for "pairs", "couples", "duos" and "matchings", but we don't have a word for "clusters of 23 objects" because we rarely need to split things up into sets of size 23. "Even" expresses the feasibility of pairing things up, while "odd" means that pairing is impossible. "Being divisible by 7" is the numerical check for whether or not you can cluster something into groups of 7, and that is much less useful. The number of socks may or may not be divisible by 5, but you care a lot more about it being even or odd. But these observations miss an important point. We care about the parity of the number of socks because we wear socks in pairs, so the number 2 was explicitly introduced into the situation — it didn't pop up naturally. The more surprising fact is that being odd or even is often a critical distinction even when there's nothing around that's seemingly related to the number 2.  Here are some examples. In physics, we sometimes want to model the random movement of a particle or some other object. Imagine a speck of dust, or an excitable kitten, starting at some starting place and then moving about at random. If the model is one-dimensional, you let it jump right or left one unit at every moment. In a two-dimensional model you let the speck move up, down, right or left. In space you add forwards and backwards. After many such hops, what are the chances that the thing will return to the starting position? The answer is a bit complex when the number of hops is even, but it's very easy when the number of hops is odd: it is zero. If the step size is fixed, as in our simple model, you cannot be back where you started after an odd number of steps. The reason is simple: you can color the possible positions of the speck red and blue, with every red position being next to a blue position and vice versa. Every step you flip color. If you start on red, you'll be on red after an even number of steps, but you'll be on blue after an odd number. In contrast, the number of steps being divisible by 3, 7 or 17 doesn't tell us anything about where the speck may or may not be. So this is an instance where parity shows up uninvited and asserts its importance over other divisibility conditions You may wonder if I wasn't cheating by allowing the speck to move in just two or four or six directions, somehow sneaking in "2" without being explicit about it. But this isn't so. We can consider other models where the object is allowed to move in three directions, or five, or seven, or a variable number of directions, and the result is the same: only the parity matters. A walk on a finite or infinite tree is always constrained by parity. (For the cognoscenti: there are certainly graphs that aren't bipartite like the ones I've used, but observe that a walk on an undirected k  -chromatic graph for k>2  is not constrained by the number of steps mod k  . The number 2 really does behave differently here.) Here's a completely different example. In mathematics (and physics, and engineering etc.) we often need to solve equations, and those equations are sometimes polynomial, meaning they look something like this: 7x 7 −23x 4 +14x 3 −2x 2 +163=0  . Generally there's something times x  to the something, plus or minus something times x  to the something else, and so on. When do such equations have a solution? Here's an important consideration: if the highest power is odd, there's always a solution (in real numbers). If the highest power is even, there may or may not be. Once again, parity makes an appearance uninvited. There's nothing "2"ish about polynomial equations; there's no pairing or matching around. Yet the parity of the highest power has a profound impact on the behavior of polynomial functions, in particular on their having real roots. Whether the highest power is divisible by 3, 5 or 73 doesn't say anything much about the equation. The underlying reason has to do with the fact that multiplying negative numbers is akin to flipping or reversing something. Flipping an even number of times does nothing, but flipping an odd number of times is still a flip. A deeper investigation into polynomial equations led mathematicians to discover the world of groups, the possible structures of symmetry. Some groups are solvable, meaning they can be constructed by piecing together cyclic structures; more complicated groups aren't solvable. When the group is solvable, the polynomial equation can be solved by radicals, but the notion of solvability has been found to be profound much beyond questions of polynomial roots. When people started investigating finite groups that are or aren't solvable, they observed that the many examples of non-solvable groups they came up with all had an even number of elements. Eventually, John Thompson and Walter Feit proved one of the deepest results in group theory, and among the most celebrated in all of 20th century math: the Feit–Thompson theorem asserts that groups of odd order are always solvable. This is a surprising and deep result connecting the mere parity of a number with the possible structures having that number of symmetries. Whenever we talk of divisibility, we are inexorably led to consider primes. Indeed, being divisible by 10 is the same thing as being divisible by both 2 and 5, and being divisible by 8 is the same as being divisible by the prime 2 three times. Among the primes 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, ... the first prime, 2, is an odd one out, if you pardon the pun. Many results in the theory of numbers use primes, and the prime 2 often needs to be singled out because it behaves differently. Primitive roots, quadratic reciprocity, p  -adic equations and many other things are different for the odd primes and for 2. As a result, even numbers behave differently from odd numbers, since the even ones are the ones that have 2 in their prime decomposition.  A deep instance of this distinction is the "Parity Problem" in Sieve Theory. This is an observation, due to Atle Selberg, that a powerful set of techniques known as sieve methods are inherently limited in their ability to tell even from odd. Once again, this is unique to parity: there is no corresponding limitation for telling apart "divisible by 11" from "not divisible by 11". This is truly just a small sample of the many ways parity considerations play a part in mathematics. To summarize, I think the answer to the question is a combination of "smaller is more common" and "2 is a special divisor for many different reasons". 