What is the best strategy to improve my skills in competitive programming in 2-3 months?My knowledge is structure programming  in C++ I solved around 50 problems all of them are basic problems Samuel.Soliman - A2 Online Judge
Originally Answered: What is the best way to start competitive programming?Some form of this question is probably the most frequently asked question in the Competitive Programming topic. So there are plenty more to choose from. Here are just a few: How should I get started in competitive programming? What is the best way to begin my competitive programming experience? What can be the best way for a beginner to learn competitive programming (i.e. for participating in competitions like acm/icpc)? How can I start competitive programming when I have theoretical but not a lot of programming experience in C, C++, JavaSE and JavaEE? What is the best way to start preparing for competitive programming, given that one is able to solve easy ad-hoc programming problems but not algorithmic, tough ad-hoc? How can I become good at competitive programming? Are there any courses that will take me one step forward before I start doing SPOJ or TopCoder problems? How do I start doing competitive programming from scratch if I am just a newbie C++ programmer? What are the pre-requisites for starting competitive programming aimed at developing strong coding skills? What are some good resources to learn C++ for competitive programming? What is the best website to start competitive coding? How do I become a competitive programmer? Why is this such a popular question? Maybe because starting something is the exciting part. There's nothing but upside ahead. Maybe someday you'll beat Gennady Korotkevich (competitive programmer). Of course, starting is also the easiest part. Creating an account on one of the online judges and solving a few problems is something any programmer can do. Coming back every day and solving more problems is harder. Another possibility is that people think maybe there's some secret information that hasn't been revealed yet. There are a number of accomplished competitive programmers who follow this topic. Maybe if the question is asked just one more time, they'll finally reveal the secret to success. For a response to that idea, see Mariya Mykhailova's answer "Competitive programming" topic on Quora must have a hundred of questions like this by now. And yet new questions, identical to the previous ones, keep popping up. We people who answer them have run out first of serious helpful answers, then of link-to-old-questions answers, then of all grades of ironic and sarcastic answers a long time ago. Actually, I have no idea how to answer this in a new original way that would not be a rewording of one of the existing answers. I give up. Updated 5 Jul • View Upvotes