For a 2k-edge-connected loopless graph, can we show that it has a k-edge-connected bipartite subgraph? (This subgraph must contain all the vertices of the original graph)k-edge-connected graph Bipartite graph
I'll show that there is a bipartite subgraph H  such that every vertex in H  has degree at least k  The key insight to notice in this problem is that if a graph is m  -edge connected, it's minimum degree δ(x)≥m  (since removing fewer than m  edges connected to a single vertex shouldn't disconnect this vertex). Hence for all v∈V(G)  , we know that deg G (v)≥m  Now coming back to the original question, we can easily see that if a graph G  is 2k  -edge connected, then every vertex in G  has deg G (v)≥2k  . And if a bipartite graph H  is k  -edge connected, then every vertex in H  has deg H (v)≥k  So, it suffices to prove the following result Claim Let G  be any loopless connected graph, such that deg(v)>1  (for all v∈V(G)  ), then there exists a spanning bipartite subgraph H  of G  such that  deg H (v)≥deg G (v)2   Note that this immediately implies the statement I set out to prove i.e. that H has minimum degree at least k  . Proof First we can easily see that there must exist a spanning bipartite subgraph of G  . Now let H  be a spanning subgraph of G  with the largest number of edges (and hence degree), and let the bipartitions of H  be H 1   and H 2   . I claim that H  has the property that  deg H (v)≥deg G (v)2   Suppose for the sake of argument, that this is not the case. Let x  be any vertex which violates the property. i.e. deg H (x)<deg G (x)2   Without loss of generality, lets say x∈H 1   Now, take x  and move it into H 2   . Let's call the resulting graph obtained H ′   By making this change we now have deg H ′  (x)≥deg G (x)2   But with one important difference. The number of edges between the two partitions has increased. In particular it is, e(H ′ )=  e(H)−deg H (x)+(deg G (x)−deg H (x))  And this means, e(H ′ )=e(H)+deg G (x)−2∗deg H (x)>e(H)  This contradicts our assumption that H  has the maximum number of edges between its partitions. Note that the above proof implies that every vertex in a maximum sized spanning bipartite subgraph of a loopless 2k  -edge connected graph must have minimum degree at least ⌈2k2 ⌉=k  