What are some unsolved problems in math which seem easy at first glance?An example of this would be the collatz conjecture.
Originally Answered: What are some open math questions/problems that look simple but have not yet been proven?There are lots and lots, under various interpretations of "look simple". Here are a few. Is there always a prime number between two consecutive squares? (Legendre's conjecture) If 2x and  3x are integers for some real positive number x , must this number be an integer as well? (see this Quora answer) Bag A contains balls numbered 1 through 20, and bag B contains balls numbered 21 through 41. Can you move a ball from B to A, and then another ball from A to B, and again from B to A, and so on, in such a way as to make the contents of bag A go through all the possible combinations without repetition? (This is the the Middle Levels Conjecture). (EDIT: this one may have been resolved recently by Torsten Mütze. The preprint is here: Proof of the middle levels conjecture). Is e+π a rational number? How about π/e ? Is there a polynomial that maps every pair of rational numbers to a unique rational number? (see Polynomial bijection on MO; the problem as I phrased it here is examining just injectivity, and even this is unknown). Is 33 the sum of three cubes of integers? (Article by Bjorn Poonen) Are there infinitely many primes that are 1 more than a power of 2? In fact, are there any such primes beyond 65,537? (Fermat primes) Are there infinitely many primes that are 1 less than a power of 2? (Mersenne prime) Can you color the plane with 4 colors such that every two points that are 1cm apart have a different color? How about 5 colors? 6? (Hadwiger–Nelson problem) Does any number appear 10 times or more in Pascal's Triangle? (Singmaster's conjecture). We can't even rule out the possibility that some numbers appear a million times in the triangle, or even that there's no limit on how many times a number might show up. The number 3,003 shows up 8 times. Among 45 people, must there be 5 mutual strangers or 5 mutual acquaintances? (Ramsey Numbers) Every hour, a spaceship is launched along a straight line from a fixed launchpad in a fixed direction, at a random speed chosen uniformly between 0 and 100mph. If two spaceships ever collide, they both get annihilated (it's ok, they're unmanned). What's the probability that some spaceship survives forever? (Caution: I'm not sure this one is an open problem, but Ori seems to think it is. If not, it's his fault). Is there a box whose sides, face diagonals and main diagonal are all integers? (see Euler brick). And of course, the Collatz Conjecture. Updated 3 Jan • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Matt Ward and Delyle Polet