What are some ideas for a research project/paper on number theory/computer science/mathematics?I am a high schooler and really interested in number theory and computer science.
[A2A] As a high schooler, you likely don't have the prerequisites to do actual mathematical research. That said, you can still do interesting problems and write them up. I'm not that well versed in number theory, but since you mention computer science/mathematics, I suggest that you take a look at graph theory. Graph theory has a lot of easy to understand but hard to solve problems. One that comes to mind is crossing numbers in complete n-partite graphs. I'm not sure how much you know about graph theory, so let me explain what I mean by that. First, a graph consists of vertices and edges (sometimes other notations are used, such as nodes for vertices, but it's usually clear what is meant). The vertices are connected by the edges. A simple, real-world example is cities and roads. You can consider the cities as vertices and the roads that connect them as edges. Another example is a social network, where each person is a vertex and if two persons know each other, an edge is formed between their vertices. You can extend this to directed graphs, where you can have, say, an edge that goes from person A to B if person A knows the name of person B. In that case, it is possible that person B doesn't know the name of person A (let's say B is a celebrity, for instance), and in this case there is no directed edge from B to A. Let's not worry about these types of graphs, however. Now, let's divide the vertices of a graph into different colors (usually, coloring is how vertices are set apart). In our social network example we could color all the males purple and all the females green, for instance. Now suppose all the males know the names of all the females but none of the men, nor the females know anyone of the same sex. There are two important properties of this graph. First, it's what's called a bipartite graph. This is the grouping of vertices into two different colors, or more precisely, the fact that the vertices can be divided into two disjoint sets. In the picture below, courtesy of MistWiz on Wikipedia, a bipartite graph is shown. The second important point is that the bipartite graph is complete. This means that each of the vertices of one color connect to every vertex of the other color. This type of graph is shown below (source: The Vertex-Distance Matrix and the Detour Matrix of Complete Graphs and Complete Bipartite Graphs). A complete bipartite graph is usually denoted K m,n   where m  and n  denote the number of vertices in each partition. The above complete bipartite graph is K 3,3   . Now, you can easily extend this to complete tripartite graphs and so on. Then the notation becomes K m,n,ℓ   where ℓ  is the number of vertices colored with the third color. Now, the crossing number. Suppose you want to create graph with some vertices and edges. A question you can ask then is, "what's the minimum number of times I have to have two edges cross each other for the graph to be connected in this fashion?". For example, say you want to create the following graph (source: 3 Utilities Puzzle: Water, Gas, Electricity). Is there a more efficient way (i.e., less edge crossings) way of connecting the vertices? Turns out yes (which isn't too hard to see in this particular example). (Same source as above.) This graph is not planar (meaning that it has to have at least one crossing) and so, the one crossing drawing of it is optimal in terms of crossings. We say that the above graph has a crossing number of 1. It gets more complicated, of course. Here's a drawing of K 12,12,12   for you. (Source: Graph Theory Lesson 19.) There are multiple problems you can attempt with crossing numbers. You can either try to devise a lower or upper bound on crossing numbers for a family of graphs, say K 2,n   . Then you'd have an idea of the crossing number for different values of n  . If you can make the lower bound equal the upper bound, the number you get is of course equal to the true crossing number. I would start by trying to devise your own proof for a graph with a known crossing number. Don't pick anything too complicated though. Then, you can start looking at open problems. Literature-wise, an interesting starting point would be to look at Turan's brick factory problem. Have fun! 