What's the relationship between neural networks and quantum computation?
There is an interesting relationship between adiabatic quantum computing (AQC) and a particular recurrent neural network called the Hopfield network. A particular implementation of AQC can be modeled by the 2D Ising spin-glass problem. Interestingly, the Hopfield network is derived from the Ising model as well. Theoretically, an AQC would work best if it had full connectivity (well, it would be complete at least and would give optimal mapping of the problem graph to hardware), and the Hopfield network assumes full connectivity as well. In practice, that is obviously impossible as far as we know. There is the stochastic version of the Hopfield network, the so-called Boltzmann machines. Only difference is that the neurons have activation functions that are differentiable and the states are stochastic, unlike the Hopfield where the neurons are either on or off, and the activation function is the Heaviside step function. Note that this makes the Hopfield network deterministic. If you constrain a Boltzmann machine to have bipartite connectivity between hidden and visible neurons, you get a restricted Boltzmann machine. RBMs are used in deep learning applications, so that is very exciting. One idea that I haven't worked on or looked at much is the idea that you can model circuits with an AQC. This is pretty much why Lockheed-Martin bought their own D-Wave machine a few years ago. They want to model the circuits in their avionics equipment so they can do software validation testing. It is almost an impossible optimization task, hence the investment in this technology. But a feed-forward neural network is just a circuit too, with nonlinear activation functions. The classic example (given in AIMA, by Russel/Norvig) is trying to do nonlinear classification with the XOR gate: You cannot linearly classify the black and white points. For that, you require an ANN with nonlinear activation functions. If you have linear activation functions, then they will never be sufficient. This seems like a problem if you think about mapping it to a problem an AQC will understand. It's not clear to me how it would work, but no doubt someone will figure it out the more popular AQC research gets. There doesn't seem to be any sort of deeper meaning to this. I have a suspicion that the question could go the route of consciousness + quantum, so if that is on your mind then I would forget it. The connection is not that special, unfortunately. Updated 7 Nov 2013 • View Upvotes