What is the best strategy to improve my skills in competitive programming in 2-3 months?My knowledge is structure programming  in C++ I solved around 50 problems all of them are basic problems Samuel.Soliman - A2 Online Judge
Originally Answered: I have been doing competitive programming for like 4 months now. I just am not improving. My problem solving ability has not increased even a bit. What should I do?I don't know if this will work but I believe that If I were in your position I would definitely try this approach : 1. Stop participating in contests : Not doing well in them puts unnecessary pressure and comparing oneself with other seasoned contestants results in unrealistic expectations. 2. Understand the problem : Right now you might have one of 3 problems - a) you can't come up with the solution or b) you can't write a good implementation of the solution you have thought. c) a combination of a and b. 3. How to solve a : Read an easy problem, think for a solution for max 5-10 mins. Read(understand) the editorial - no time limit here. Move on to next easy problem. Do this for at-least 100 easy problems. 4. How to solve b: Read a problem, think of a solution, confirm from the editorial that the solution you have thought of is correct (we don't won't want to waste time trying to code a wrong solution). Code the solution, test it on all the edge cases you can think of, run it. See the case it fails on(if it fails). Make a mental note of the case so that you don't miss cases of that nature when testing your code. Modify and repeat till it passes. Read other accepted solutions and find elegant codes. Read them to try learn how to avoid making a mess of your code. 5. Simulate : Simulate some matches to see your progress. 6. Get back to the battlefield : Start participating again. Note : The above steps will help expedite the process for you to gain some confidence and reboot your enthusiasm for programming contests. It will not help improve in-depth knowledge or help you all the way. Think of this answer as a step b/w the first 2 bullets of Nikhil Garg's answer to How should I practice so that I will be at a level where I can approach TopCoder's Div1-500 problems with confidence? 