What are some ways to prove that a bipartite graph exists in a party where the number of pair-wise introductions necessary to acquaint everyone is less than the number of people present?A party has the following property: if any set of people were to meet, the number of pair-wise introductions necessary to acquaint everyone would be less than the number of people present. Prove that the people at the party can be partitioned into two groups, such that each person knows everyone else in their group.
OK, the main difficulty is probably to understand your problem. The second problem is the terminology, this property of the graph which we are trying to prove makes it anything else but a Bipartite graph. Having said that, let's start with the comprehension.  Let nn be a number of people = number of vertices of graph . First consider an example for n=4.n=4. You see that only three pairwise introductions are needed to acquaint everyone, but obviously you can't divide people into two groups such that   each person knows everyone else. Why that?  You need this condition for every subset of vertices and corresponding edges of your graph.  In particular,  it must hold for persons 2, 3, 4 as well, that is, at least two of them should be already acquainted. Therefore, there must be at least one edge amongst 2,3,4. Now to the proof.  For n=1n=1 and 22 it's trivially true.  For n=1n=1 one partition is empty.  For   n=2n=2 there are two possibilities, two are acquainted, and second partition is empty and two are not acquainted,  thus we have two one-element partitions.  Let us assume that  n≥3n≥3 and prove by induction on nn . Pick in the graph a vertex with the maximal degree (that is, the number of edges incident to it, that is a person with maximal number of acquaintances). If there are more then one take any. Claim:  The maximal degree of a vertex dd is at least  n−2n−2 . Proof of the claim: The sum of degrees of all vertices  in a complete graph is  n(n−1)n(n−1) .   Since there are less then nn people who are not acquainted the sum of degrees in our graph  S>n(n−1)−2n=(n−1)(n−2)S>n(n−1)−2n=(n−1)(n−2) .  On the other hand,  S≤d⋅nS≤d⋅n .  That is  d⋅n>(n−1)(n−2)d⋅n>(n−1)(n−2) . It follows that  d≥n−2d≥n−2 . [since (n−3)n<(n−1)(n−2)(n−3)n<(n−1)(n−2) ]. ◼ Now remove a vertex with the maximal degree and all edges leading to it. You obtain a graph with n−1 vertices satisfying the property with respect to number of acquaintances. Because of the inductive assumption I can divide it into two partitions.  Consider two cases:   1) Both partitions are not empty.  Then since least degree of the removed vertex is n−2 it must have been incident to all vertices of at least one partition. Then join the removed vertex with the corresponding edges to that partition, and you're done. 2) There is an empty partition.  Then all n−1 vertices of another partition are pairwise connected. Therefore they have degrees at least n−1 . Some of them are connected to a removed vertex, that is, their degree  is n . Since we have removed a vertex with the maximal degree, it's degree is also n . Therefore it is incident to all vertices of non-empty partition. Then join the removed vertex with the edges to this partition, and you're done again. Updated 7 Oct • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous