What is the best strategy to improve my skills in competitive programming in 2-3 months?My knowledge is structure programming  in C++ I solved around 50 problems all of them are basic problems Samuel.Soliman - A2 Online Judge
Originally Answered: I have very basic programming skills. How do I become a competitive programmer?I'll start by giving a brief intro about myself. I am 21 years old and I started learning development almost 6 years ago. All other answers mention that you need to practice. This is true. But I'll give you a shortcut. I was nominated 4th Developer in Beirut and 6th developer in the MENA region. I founded my first start-up company at 19 and we currently closed several rounds of investment. I am also a technical consultant for one of the biggest telecom engineering company in Lebanon. Here's the shortcut: You need to find a decent mentor and FULLY trust him! You might be a tool for sometime, but that will be okay. He'll tell you that there's a better technology than the one you're using; there's a better way in solving this issue. And of course, you'll want to defend your strategy because you think it makes more sense. But you should totally let go of your arguments because a few months later you will understand that he was totally right. Of course you will reach a point where you can make your own judgments. You will know that you reached that point when you can immediately know the source of a bug without looking at someone's code, blind coding (writing a program that fulfills all the requirements without compiling it except once). If you're not convinced why this is a good way, I had mentored over 5 developers. And I saw most of them fall in the same pitfall. Everyone wanted to reinvent the wheel while I was telling them that it's better to use this battle tested package. Where as a developer or two, completely trusted me and he was the "fast-learner" in the group. I am available here and on CodeMentor (Jad Joubran - PHP, bower Expert, Author of helpers.css - Codementor) if you have any questions. Best of luck! 