Theoretical Computer Science: At 27, am I too old to learn advanced Mathematics?
Let me share what I think you should do. I am also 27 years old and currently doing PhD in theoretical computer science. Not exactly in your shoes, but I can somehow relate to your confusion. TL;DR: Yes, you should pursue mathematics, if that is what you think is your call. Long answer: Let me put forth my points one by one. First, your score in school level exams do not carry any weight in this discussion. So let us put that aside. Your math score was good, that's awesome, but it has zero correlation in how you are going to fair in advanced mathematics. Your question should be aimed for TCS and not advanced mathematics. The topics you have mentioned constitute the heart of TCS, but as far as pure mathematics is concerned - not really. Having said that, these topics are beautiful to study as are analysis, topology and other pure mathematical topics. Now, if you really want to enjoy mathematics, and believe me enjoying mathematics has nothing to do with age, you need to be fearless and patient. Mathematics, as it is, is not easy. It requires training to appreciate and the whole process, if done properly, is quite enjoyable. I started doing maths (properly) when I started PhD - I was 24 years young then -  and I was scared. It was ridiculously cool and tough at the same time. But after 3 and a half years of training, I am pretty confident that if I see a good proof or a good analysis, I will appreciate it. I will even try to replicate the trick in my own calculation if possible and hence learn the intuition behind the proof. It was a hard journey, but intellectually it was worth every drop of sweat. But, on the other hand, you also have to consider the following common mental hurdle - most of the beautiful things you will see are beautiful in pen and paper, and don't have any immediate application in the real life so to say. This is a debatable issue, but on a vague note, this is not far from the truth. You should be able to content yourself by appreciating the beauty of it on black and white, which can be hard sometimes. Now, can you learn as much mathematics as is needed to do research? Sure you can. I do not see any reason why you cannot. IF your age is your biggest concern, just forget how old you are. Can you do it? Well, it's on you! Research is not about publishing paper. We are not doing research just to publish paper - you should see the meagre stipend we get and the shitty salary most of the profs get - we do it because we enjoy it. If you can enjoy maths, I do not see any reason why you cannot do it.Hope this helps. 