Let's say you have three houses that need to have water, electric, and heating (as shown on diagram). Can you provide all three to the 3 houses without crossing the cables?
Briefly, NO. However, there is some interesting mathematics underlying the answer that I'm going to talk about before explaining why. It turns out to be a consequence of an old and important theorem in Graph theory. Why the Problem is HardAt its core, this is hard because the question you are asking is asserting the non-existence of something. Here's an example. Suppose we ask the same question with two houses and two resources, say water and power. We would end up with a situation like this: At first glance you may realize, "Oh, we can just move the edges around and untwist them". Like this: How about three houses and two resources? Turns out we can still do it! Like so: But if we try for a while to do the same thing with three houses and three resources, we won't find a solution. And we may be led to ask your question. Our AbstractionLike any good problem, we need to step back and look at this problem in a new way. First, let's separate the things we care about: Houses and Resources. Our job is to connect each resource to each house. We'll represent the houses and the resources as two distinct sets of points VH,VRV H ,V R  called vertices and each connection from a house h∈VHh∈V H  and a resource r∈VRr∈V R  by a pair (h,r)∈VH×VR(h,r)∈V H ×V R  called an edge. The object that we have constructed is called a Bipartite graph. The next thing to ask is: "Where does this graph live?". Well, it turns out that it lives in some abstract space that contains the set VH×VRV H ×V R  . So what we need to do is embed it in a space that we are familiar with. How about the plane, R2 ? Well, the embedding comes from a function φ:VH×VR→R2 . If we restrict φ to each of the coordinate spaces (VH,VR ) then we will have a function that picks out a location for each vertex. Now, lets isolate the property we care about:  A graph G=(V,E) is called planar if there exists an embedding φ:E→R2 such that for pair of edges e1,e2∈E we have φ(e1)∩φ(e2)=∅ . This is the main takeaway: we can turn questions about houses and resources into questions about functions, which we (hopefully) understand well. Your QuestionIf we do a translation of your question into our new abstraction we get the following: Is G=({h1,h2,h3}×{r1,r2,r3},{(h1,r1),(h1,r2),(h1,r3),(h2,r1),(h2,r2),(h2,r3),(h3,r1),(h3,r2),(h3,r3)}) planar? Turns out this graph has a special name: its the Complete bipartite graph on 6 vertices. The fact that you asked this question should be evidence of the importance of the study of Planar graphs and their properties. As luck would have it, you have identified one of the "core" examples of a non-planar graph. Wagner's theorem states that A finite graph is planar if and only if it does not have K5 or K3,3 as a minor. This theorem is very powerful and actually stimulated a lot of research into properties that are closed under taking minors. To be direct, K3,3 clearly contains itself as a minor and therefore is non-planar by Wagner's theorem. Alternatively there is an argument that you could make in the particular case of K3,3 based on the idea of Euler characteristic, but I'll leave you to figure that one out for yourself (you can always ask me if you get stuck, it's just that the story of Euler characteristics is a long one). GeneralizationsYou might ask, well, we solved the question when the number of resources and houses are both 3. Can we generalize the problem to the case when we have n houses and m resources? It turns out that the answer is YES! In fact, the situation is quite nice: Not only can we answer the question, but we can answer it effectively. Namely, the number of operations we must do to answer the question varies linearly with the number of vertices. So t≤M(|VH|+|VR|) for some M>0 . A computer scientist would say that the algorithm is O(V) . The algorithm I am referring to is due to John Hopcroft and Robert Tarjan in the mid 70's. Other algorithms are known but not by me. MiscellanyThe reason I brought up Wagner's theorem is that it is a seminal theorem of its type. The so called "forbidden minor" theorems. It turns out that many properties of graphs that we care about are closed under minors. And for each of these properties there are only a finite number of "bad" cases (forbidden minors) to look for in the graph. In the case of planarity the "bad" cases are K3,3 and K5 The way a mathematician would say this is that graphs with the relation "is a minor of" is a Well-quasi-ordering. This, in my opinion, is the most important theorem in graph theory for reasons that would take up a whole book in and of themselves. The reason that I brought up embeddings is that it will lead you to the subject of Algebraic topology, which answers questions about abstract geometric objects like graphs. The notion of Euler characteristic, and relevant proof that K3,3 is non-planar, have generalizations to extremely abstract spaces and we can leverage the framework I outlined to answer much deeper questions about graphs. Another reason to talk about the embedding is the following generalization: Given that the graph is planar: What is the arrangement of the edges that minimizes the total edge length? Like many hard problems, involving real-valued functions, we can attack this problem with some high powered tools from Functional analysis and I encourage to try to answer this question. 