★Why haven't more ISPs used IPv6?It seems inevitable that all ISPs will migrate to using the IPv6 standard.  What are the reasons why (in detail) this has not occurred in a more robust manner?
In and of itself, IPv6 doesn't add value to the ISP. It's not like you upgrade to IPv6 and bring some nice extra revenue. It isn't technically required for some new service. It doesn't open up new revenue streams for the ISP. It's the opposite: it's going to cause major headaches and cost a lot of money. It's not really needed for most ISPs. This is still true but is going to change fast over the next couple years due to address depletion. It involves replacing a lot of equipment. Even recent routers that claim to support IPv6 don't support some of the newer protocols or don't support it at the same performance than for IPv4. It requires a lot of training. Every one of the engineers has to be really comfortable with IPv6, and at least a few need to understand it as deeply as they understand IPv4. The complexity of support cases tend to be higher, because there's plenty that can go wrong in terms of interoperability (specially on the customer side). Easy to say, hard to get done. It requires lots of planning. You'll be running a overlayed network, IPv4 and IPv6 over the same routers. Potential problems more than double. Everything has to be done in sync: training people, buying or deploying capacity, installing new routers. It's a new rollout over something that's already running and can't be broken. The egg and chicken part: you need to buy reliable transit to run IPv6 full scale, but many IPSs still don't sell it, partly because they can't buy it from someone else. It's changing, but there are still lots of places where you can't find an tier 1 or 2 ISP selling IPv6 to other smaller providers. Given that most ISPs aren't exactly with time, money or people to spare, it's one of those projects that keeps being postponed. Most ISPs will only do it because of address depletion, and only when forced to.    Embed Quote