★Why should I switch over to IPv6?My ISP supports IPv6 (*), letting customers run a dual stack (IPv4 with IPv6). Why should I enable IPv6? It doesn't help alleviate my usage of an IPv4 address, for example. (*) Comcast Reaches Key Milestone in Launch of IPv6 Broadband Network
The best reason I have to offer a residential user to enable IPv6 if his or her ISP supports IPv6 is that the user experience for IPv4 will begin to degrade (or has started to degrade in some broadband networks). The ISPs are deploying various technologies to extend the lifespan of IPv4. The Internet was designed using an end-to-end model with unique identifiers (IP addresses) to number the computers connected to the network. The IPv4 extension technologies lead us even more away from a fundamental principle of the Internet in that they impose layers upon layers of IPv4 address sharing. In addition, these technologies have poor exit strategies for providers. The additional costs of maintaining this additional infrastructure will be passed on to the consumers. IPv4 extension technologies have other unpleasant side effects. They force the Internet into a mode engineers have joking called "Internet over HTTP" in which all services--no matter how appropriate these are to be encapsulated in HTTP--are stuffed into HTTP in order to traverse of world replete with middleware that the extension technologies represent. Innovation is stifled. You are correct that dual stack does nothing to alleviate the IPv4 exhaustion problem. On the ISPs' part, dual stack is a limited transition mechanism. The investments carriers have to make to support two version of IP are higher than supporting a single version. In my "Why Your Network Should Go IPv6-Only" talk at the 2012 North American IPv6 Summit meeting, I pointed out how mobile providers pay licensing fees for the number of connections-called PDP contexts in their parlance--for IPv4 and IPv6 unless their systems supported an advanced dual protocol PDP context present only in much more recent version of the mobile spec. All the arguments that IPv6 is better than IPv4 have fallen by the wayside with the exception that IPv6 can uniquely identify more end points. Therefore, trends such as cloud and the Internet of Things cannot realize their potential without IPv6. That a non-technical user--speaking generically as I don't know the technical acumen of the questioner)--has to ask about IPv6 is an unfortunate circumstance partially resulting from a shortcoming of the Internet engineering community and vendor ecosystem. The upgrade from IPv4 to IPv6 should have been seamless much like the upgrades to HTTP, the protocol behind the web were. Many of the assumptions behind the transition planning over the last 15 years have been wrong. I count myself in the camp of engineers who have been wrong about IPv6 much in the way I was wrong about global deployment of multicast in the late 1990s and early 2000s. We're still waiting for the "killer app" for multicast. Let's hope the move to IPv6 goes much better.    Embed Quote