★Why are IPv6 addresses only 128 bits long instead of 256 bits?Considering quantum computing & advancement in nanotechnology.
What I've never understood is why we didn't go to variable length, one byte for length of address and then 32-2048 bits (4...256 bytes) probably with only a few used in practice (32, 64, 128, 256.) I suppose the obvious answer would be that at the time (early 1990s) there was a lot more concern over processing and memory access speed so a fixed ip header length became the goal. But it already meant we had to support two ip header lengths, IPv4 vs IPv6, how much more overhead could it have been to have supported two more (64 and 256) in common practice. Since that would have allowed the use of 64-bit addresses it would have been less wasteful. I suppose there would have been some complexity at the application level but nothing dreadful. That said, you run out of address space when segmentation becomes popular, assigning large chunks for specific functions. That turns the typical 2^N address calculation into just N (as an extreme.) For example if you reserve large blocks for regional distributions, which we do (RIRs.) Those blocks may each have a gazillion addresses but if Asia (APNIC) runs theirs out it's not like they can dip into North America's (ARIN) blocks w/o some serious changes in policy. So as far as APNIC would be concerned ARIN's entire address allocation doesn't exist for allocation. And the same for all 5 RIRs and any other allocation authority which might come along, not picking on APNIC or ARIN except for an example. Or for particular applications analogous to block allocations reserved for multicast etc. Take away a /8 for each of those, essentially a byte, and we only have 16 such blocks (again, 2^N becomes N) horizontally or 256 vertically, other than slicing and dicing more finely, of course we don't have to hand out a /8 for some app it could be a longer prefix and often is, but nonetheless it quickly shows how those gazillion addresses could dwindle in availability quickly. So, to say 128 bits means O(2^128) addresses available for allocation is a little miseading since at the higher levels allocations occur in blocks, not bits, and the number of blocks is far more limited.    Embed Quote