★Why couldn't MAC addresses be used instead of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses for networking?
Large, flat address spaces don't scale up for routing in computer networking; it makes both routing table lookup slow, and routing table maintenance unwieldy. Ethernet (or Wi-Fi) MAC Addresses are a large, flat address space with no routing hierarchy. Every large scale address system has hierarchy and information hiding to make routing tractable. For example, postal addresses: what does a postman in the United Kingdom need to know about zip codes, or States of the USA, so long as the envelope says "United States of America" on it? All he has to do is forward the letter to the USA through whatever channel has been established for that in the UK. Could be as simple for him as "oh, an international letter; I'll hand it to the blokes who handle that bit of post - they'll know better than me what to do." The rest of the address doesn't get looked at until it gets to the USA for routing to the appropriate state, city, and postal route (yes, the UK could optimize by knowing a bit about the USA, and sending the letter to the nearest large U.S. airport for airmail, but ignore that for the purposes of this argument). Same goes for Telephone Numbers; they have hierarchy, too: country codes, city/state/area codes, exchange, and number (of course, those of us who've never made an international call may not know about country codes). The whole point is that the telephone switches in China don't need to know anything about North American area codes (NANP) - they just have to route calls to country code 1 to the USA/Canada - we figure out the routing for call connection after that. IP Addresses have hierarchy, also. Apple (company) has IPv4 class A network 17 (that's old tongue; 17/8 in the CIDR age) available to it for allocation of addresses to computers within its network. IP network routers outside Apple don't need to do anything other than know where next to send any packet with a destination within network 17 in the direction of net 17; once the packet gets to routers at the edge of net 17, they need to know which subnet to further route the packet to, in order to get that packet to the addressed host (computer). Further, Apple can add or remove or change the internal routing of subnets within its network without having to notify the rest of the world in any way. There's a similar reason for why we now have the Domain Name System (DNS), which replaced a centrally maintained Hosts File for the ARPANET: the full listing of all host names and IP addresses, copied every time there was any change to the file, would eat up a very significant amount of bandwidth. Better to have a hierarchical lookup system wherein you can locally cache whatever information is needed at the moment, and ignore the rest ... until you need it.    Embed Quote