★Do I need a new router for IPv6?I'm connected to the Internet via router primarily? As the hype about IPv6 is increasing lately I wonder if I need a new router or if routers are basically always compatible.
If you are a typical home user with a SOHO device (i.e. something you bought for less than $200 at a retail store by Linksys, D-Link, Netgear, etc...) you will, more than likely, need to upgrade to a device that can explicitly handle IPv6.  The problem lies in the router you have and it's ability to efficiently deal with the larger address space in IPv6.  IPv4 uses 32bit addresses while IPv6 uses 128bit.  The other problem is that most ISP IPv6 implementations will end up being 'dual stack' which means that the software that handles the IPv4 protocol and the software that handles the IPv6 protocol must be running at the same time.  This adds overhead in terms of memory and processing which most SOHO routers are low on to begin with. Other things that you may want to consider is that with IPv6 there are new ways to handle how your router will allocate the IP space that your ISP provides to you.  Today with IPv4 home users typically have DHCP running on their router which, in turn, hands out private Internet addresses out of a subnet within the RFC1918 networks (i.e. 192.168.1.0/24) as you need to NAT since your ISP generally only gives you 1 public IP address.  With IPv6 most ISPs will now start assigning a /64 prefix (which equates to 18,446,744,073,709,552,000 public IP addresses you can use - that number is not a typo and is in fact much larger than the public IPv4 Internet today) to your connection and you will need a device that does SLAAC (Stateless Address Auto Configuration) by acting as the RA (which needs to run software to do the RA announcement to the network) or DHCP for IPv6 which, although exists today, is still immature in many of the deployments of it (it has been one of the most often changed parts of IPv6 to date). Long story short - you can potentially do IPv6 today with your existing router, however to do native, dual stack, IPv6 it is very unlikely.  There are other ways your ISP may provision IPv6 that may negate this, however those are not long term solutions. Check with your ISP first to see how they are doing IPv6 deployment and when it will be publicly available for all customers.  The longer you wait the more devices will natively handle this.  Since IPv6 seems to be gaining significant traction in 2011 I would guess there will be many more options to choose from by Q3 of this year.    Embed Quote