★Will the transition to IPv6 be invisible/transparent for most people?From the "consumer" perspective, let's say.
It's difficult to say. Much of the impact of transition isn't strictly in terms of the roll-out of IPv6, but in terms of mitigating the effects of IPv4 exhaustion. For many people, NAT and IPv4 versus IPv6 have little practical impact upon their use of the Internet — most of which revolves around http, https, some instant messaging protocols, and Flash media streaming. For these folk, ISPs could roll out “carrier-grade NAT” (i.e., there’s a layer of NAT on the ISP’s side), and for the most part they’d not notice any difference — though they might notice things like file transfers over IM and Skype calls not working especially reliably. As IPv6 is adopted by ISPs, services, and applications and these things can avoid the multiple layers of NAT (some of which will support things like UPnP, some of which won’t), they'll get progressively more reliable. For users with more diverse kinds of applications: gaming (especially from games consoles), for example, peer-to-peer file transfer, people trying to set up port forwarding so that they can VNC into their machines at home when they’re at work, and so on, the effects of IPv4 exhaustion will be more pronounced and noticeable, and so for them to the transition to IPv6 will involve a lot of things stopping working, some being updated to work around the increased prevalence of CGNAT, and — all being well — getting a lot better as IPv6 is rolled out. The good news from my experience (I use IPv6 all the time) is that many applications work just fine with it right now — and it's only improving over time. Aside from the limited availability of consumer connectivity providing native IPv6, the biggest thing preventing me dropping IPv4 altogether is that of websites and services not being accessible over IPv6. Although Google is (depending upon where your DNS servers are), for example, Quota, Twitter, BBC News, CNN, TechCrunch and many many others aren't. Hopefully this will improve soon as awareness of IPv4 exhaustion takes hold.    Embed Quote