What would the correct chemical nomenclature be for this chemical compound: CHBO2Mg?
Let us dissect the formula provided in the question....we see that this is an ionic compound, made of a single magnesium cation and the organoboron anion.  'CHBO2' would be very similar to boric acid, or a borate, where one of the oxygen atoms in the borate anion is replaced with a CH group.  The closest familiar thing we have to such a formula is the OBO2 anion, a triangular array of oxygen atoms surrounding a boron atom.  By itself, the borate anion has three negative charges, all on the oxygen atoms, so it would have required a cation with +3 charge (like aluminum cations). If we desire to transform the BO3 trianion into the supposed CHBO2 dianion, we would need to somehow neutralize one of the negative charges that the replaced oxygen atom was carrying.  We could achieve this by ring formation or additional bonding to the boron atom (which still has an empty p-orbital ready to accept two electrons from the nearby atoms). One of the ways we can do this is to use the CH fragment as a methylidene ligand to the borate fragment.  This leaves us with a radical species, but still a dianion.  The odd electron in CHBO2 dianion would be residing in a p orbital perpendicular to the p orbitals used to form the double bond between the carbon and boron atoms, much like a triplet carbene.  Here, I have shown the hypothetical dianion with a linear HCB angle, although it may also have a bent shape, more like H3BO3 missing two hydrogen atoms. A ring would be highly strained, but does have a name according to the Hantzsch-Widman system of nomenclature for heterocyclic compounds.  However, the ring form would leave negative charges on the carbon atom as well as the oxygen atom not part of the ring, making the structure less favored. The ring form would be named '1-oxo-1-bora-2-oxiranate', modeled after the three-membered ring, oxirane or ethylene oxide.  The 'ate' ending is used for anionic species, and the 'oxo' prefix is used to indicate an extra oxygen attached to the original boron atom of the ring, much like we sometimes name ketones with this prefix. The methylidene form is generally named as a ligand attached to the original chemical species, so it is named 'methylideneborate'.  Thus, the most likely species that fits CHBO2Mg is 'magnesium methylideneborate'.  Although the compound seems very hypothetical, it would have behavior similar to known methylidene compounds.   A search on ChemSpider for compounds with just the five elements reveals a much bigger compound, with a very different ratio of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and boron atoms relative to the magnesium atom, and it does not have B-C bonds.  This particular compound is very similar to carbohydrates. It is possible the ratio of atoms you have in the original formula is different, and adding a few more hydrogen atoms would have made the hypothetical borate compound more stable or recognizable. 