What are the most surprising or interesting aspects, from defense technology perspective, of China's military parade on September 3, 2015?
This article has a comprehensive list of all the vehicles and weapons that appeared in the 9-3 parade.   According to state media sources, 84% of the equipment in the parade was being revealed for the first time, so there's a lot to go through. Without further ado: 红旗－7  Red Flag Chairman Xi stuck to tradition with the 红旗 7 (Red Flag), a domestically produced luxury vehicle favored by China's rulers since the Mao era.  The greeting he delivered, 同志们好！同志们辛苦了! (Hello comrades.  Good work comrades), stuck to the military parade decorum laid down by Mao.  All in all, nothing too radical in this department; Xi followed all the forms laid down by his predecessors.  Make of that what you will. 95式自动步枪 QBZ-95 The PLA soldiers were armed with the QBZ-95 Automatic Rifle.  A bull pup style assault rifle, it is comparable to the M-16/M-4, FAMAS or AK-74 in terms of cartridge size used.  The ergonomics look a little clunky to me, but then I guess that's made up for by being more "handy" in tight spaces.  Nothing too revolutionary here.  It's notable for being a family of weapons with interchangeable parts, with a carbine, assault rifle, SAW and designated marksman rifle all sharing the same base design with modification.  The SAW version looks to be even more awkward to handle, but I've never shot one.  I guess balance wouldn't be too much of an issue when fired from the prone position, Anyways, onto the vehicles. 99A式主战坦克  ZTZ-99A MBT The ZTZ-99A MBT is a heavily upgraded and modified T-72, produced domestically.  It shares the 3-man crew and autoloader with the T-72, and is marketed as being equivalent to the M1A1-M1A2 Abrams and Leopard 2.  The 99A has an improved domestic 125mm main gun, composite armor, ERA, and a diesel engine.  Due to military modernization focusing on the PLAN and PLAAF, the 99A has only been introduced in the Shenyang and Beijing military districts. 05A式两栖突击车 ZTD-05A AAV Designed to be deployed from the new Type 071 amphibious transport dock, the ZTD-05A AAV would likely play a significant role in any future conflict involving the 9-dotted line maritime disputes.  Designed in response to the now cancelled EFV, the M-05A is a modern design with a 105mm main gun.  It outclasses the 70's designed USMC AAV, giving the Chinese a qualitative edge in Amtracs if the South Pacific border disputes ever move beyond water fights. 04A式履带步兵战车 ZBD 04A Armed with a low velocity 100mm main cannon, this IFV is capable of transporting 7 soldiers into battle.  While it faces many of the problems the IFV as a class face, such as being unable to hold an entire squad of 9 soldiers, it's speed and tracked status allow it to operate in concert with the 99A MBT.  The ZBD 04A's communication suite has been improved upon as compared to it's predecessors, with a similar move towards an "information centric" war style and infantry-drone coordination at the squad level. 03式空降兵战车 ZBD-03 Para IFV Designed to be dropped along with the Chinese paratroops, the air-deployable ZBD-03 gives these traditionally lightly armored combatants extra punch.  Armed with a 30mm chain gun and one HJ-3C ATGM launcher, this IFV can also transport 5 soldiers..  This is the first time this weapon system has been revealed. 红箭10多用途武器系统 HJ-10 Multipurpose AT Weapon System The "Red Arrow" ATGM system shoots wire guided anti tank missiles at targets at a medium range.  The system can also shoot down low flying, slow moving airborne targets.  While wire guided ATGM's might not be the newest technology on the block, putting it on an armored vehicle allows a degree of mobility and protection while sacrificing concealment.  Also, as ECM improves and makes its way into land warfare, having a hard wire connection might prove useful. 05A式155mm自行加榴炮  PLZ-05A SPG This large caliber gun-howitzer is an evolutionary step from the PLZ-05, with it's guidance system getting an upgrade.  This system can be equipped with rocket-assisted shells with a range of 50 km, as well as having Beido (Chinese GPS) guided shells that can hit targets with precision.  Capable of firing 10 shells a minute, this design is comparable to contemporary SPG designs like the PzH-2000. 11式轮式装甲突击车ZTL-11 Armored Fighting Vehicle Designed to be strategically mobile like the Stryker, the Type 11 is easily deployable by air and by sea.  Whether this comes at the expense of survivability and true all terrain mobility remains to be seen, but in light of the Stryker seems likely.  The 9-3 parade was it's first taste of the spotlight, and information on main gun caliber, crew size, etc. are a bit thin on the ground.  It's predecessor, the ZTL-09, was armed with a 105mm main gun. 猛士防护型突击车 “Berserker" Assault Vehicle This 4X4 "Chinese Hummer" serves as an all around military transport.  A 6X6 version appeared later in the parade.  This version is armored to provide some protection for it's passengers.  The 猛士 can also be purchased in a civilian configuration, although why anyone would want to navigate Beijing's traffic in a Hummer is beyond me. PGZ-07双35毫米自行高炮  PGZ-07 SPAAG The PGZ is designed to keep up with fast moving armored columns and provide protection against low flying slow moving aerial targets.  Armed with twin linked 35mm automatic anti-aircraft guns, these would be useful against SU-24 or A-10 style CAS aircraft, helicopters, drones and cruise missiles.  As the Russians showed in Afghanistan and the First Chechen War, these type of SPAAGs are useful against unarmored ground targets in a pinch. 红旗－9导弹  HQ-9 SAM System The "Red Banner" medium to long-range SAM system is touted as being similar to the PAC-3and S-300 SAM systems.  The radar used is of the AESA type, which spreads it's radio emissions across a wide spectrum, which allows for greater detection of Stealth capable planes at the low-frequency spectrum and provides some protection against anti-radiation missiles and other ECM techniques the Wild Weasel boys will throw at them.  This system caught the attention of the international press when Turkey placed an order for the export-only version, the FT-2000.  Political pressure within NATO to "buy American" has cast doubt that that order will ever be fulfilled.  It is also marketed as having a theater level ABM capability, like the Patriot.  This system is rumored to incorporate data from the Serbian 1999 shoot down of a F-117 during the Kosovo Intervention.  The Chinese were seen as providing electronic intelligence from a wing of their embassy, which was bombed in a CIA-directed air strike a few days after the shoot down.  This system was revealed in the 2009 60th anniversary of the founding of the PRC parade, exactly one Chinese design cycle after the shoot down.  Make of that what you will. 红-12地空导弹和红-6弹炮系统 HQ 12 SAM HQ-6 SPAAG/SAM The next two systems shown were the HQ-6 and HQ-12.  These 90's era designs provide no major surprises, although are available for export to countries like Pakistan on the low to mid-range market.  These mobile SAMs can keep up with mechanized columns and provide a mobile AA bubble.  The HQ-6 is a short range gun missile combination system, similar to it's competition on the export market, the SA-19.  For those defenders of the venerable and aged A-10, it's systems like the HQ-6 that the Air Force big wigs have in mind when they say the A-10 can't survive on a modern battlefield.     海红旗－9 防空导弹 HHQ-9 SAM This is the navalized version of the HQ-9, with the same capabilities.  Of greater note is that this missile also equips the new Type 52C "Chinese Aegis" Destroyers, and would likely play a role in any Sino-Japanese tussle in the near future.    鹰击-83和鹰击－16反舰导弹 YJ-83 and YJ-16 Anti-Ship Missile Sometimes referred to as C-802 for export purposes, the YJ-83 is a fairly standard ASM with a similar capability to the Harpoon or Exocet.  The YJ-16 is designed to be similar to the Russian club supersonic ASM, make the last run at supersonic speeds.  Both are air deployable as well as equipping the new Type 52C destroyers.  It is marketed at being able to pierce the USN's Aegis/Phalanx/RAM anti-missile defense umbrella. 东风－15B ／16中近程弹道导弹 DF-15B DF-16 Tactical SRBM These short-ranged conventional ballistic missiles are part of China's strategy for keeping Taiwan in it's orbit.  The DF-15B played a major role in China's escalation strategy during the 3rd Taiwan Straits Crisis.  These missiles aren't armed with a nuclear warhead, and are instead intended to gain a tactical advantage through strikes at fixed targets in Taiwan, such as airbases and naval installations.  Due to their modern solid-fuel design, the DF-15B and DF-16 can be launched quickly on short notice.   东风-21D 中程反舰弹道导弹 DF-21D IR-ASBM The first of it's kind, if the DF-21D works as advertised it represents a revolutionary advancement in A2/AD (anti-access area denial) warfare.  Explicitly designed to sink the mighty super carriers that form the bulwark of American power, if these intermediate range anti ship ballistic missiles can actually hit a maneuvering Nimitz-class super carrier in the west Pacific, the entire calculus of American naval power has shifted.  Developed in response to the humiliation of having an American carrier battle group ending the Third Taiwan Strait crisis with a show of force inside the Taiwan Strait, it remains to be seen if this weapon system can actually do the things the Chinese say it can do.  If it can, they've got a world-beater of a weapon on their hands.  Either way, it's given American admirals something to think about. 长剑－10A巡航导弹 CJ-10A Cruise Missile In the 90's the Chinese got a hold of as many Tomahawk parts as they could get their hands on from the Clinton and Bush I era interventions.  Continuing a theme, the "Long Sword" can be launched from naval, air, and land assets.  Equipped with GPS and inertial guidance, the missile adopts a terrain hugging flight path to avoid radar detection.  It can carry both a conventional or nuclear warhead. Combined with the new H-6K Bomber (showcased later), this cruise missile gives the Chinese the ability to launch a cruise missile strike on Hawaii.  The Type 093 submarine will be equipped with an anti-ship version of this cruise missile. 东风-31甲洲际弹道导弹 DF-31A ICBM This MIRV (multiple independent re-entry vehicle) capable ICBM is the new pride of the Chinese strategic weapon arsenal.  Capable of being fired from a road-mobile TEL, this weapon will hopefully never have to be fired in anger.  Equipped with 3-6 MIRV warheads, it's inertial guidance gives it a reported circular area of probability accuracy of 300 m.  It's a triple stage, solid fueled missile with a global reach, and the ability to deploy ABM countermeasures such as decoys, chaff, and mobile re-entry vehicles.  This missile is an updated land version of the 巨浪－2 JL-2 "Tsunami." 改进型东风-5乙弹道导弹 Advanced DF-5B ICBM The DF-5B is an upgrade to the old, venerable DF-5A.  As a rather outdated liquid fuel design, this missile must be fueled before launch, a rather large disadvantage when a nuclear exchange might theoretically be over in minutes.  The missile has been upgraded to use 4－6 MIRV warheads.  This is the first time we've seen the DF-5B, and the MIRV upgrade represents a significant firepower increase over the original.  This was probably put in place in response to the increasing effectiveness of the American ABM umbrella.  More warheads equals an increased probability of one slipping through. Updated 21w ago • View Upvotes