How can order and chaos exist at the same time?
So-called chaos theory show how a deterministic equation (e.g., one used to predict the weather several days out starting from present conditions) can yield results that differ more and more depending on how many iterations have been done -- if very slight difference are assumed for the initial state. So what is in fact orderly (3 time 3 is always 9) appears completely different ten or a hundred iterations of the equation on out.  Moreover, the way some of these equations work out the value of the first iteration might be, e.g., x and y coordinates (3, 3), the next might be (7, 21), the third might be (8, 87) and just looking at these points as they are plotted on graph paper you would never guess where the next one will land. But if you do the calculation you will know that there is nothing "random" about where it lands. S0 chaos theory, so-called, is one answer to your question. However, there is another consideration: Heisenberg's indeterminacy principle indicates that it is impossible to pin down all of the things you would need to fill in such an equation with true values. That is because the combination of the relevant factors is indeterminate. So you would always be uncertain about the values that you would like to know about at the beginning of your calculations. It's too complicated to go into here. See Copenhagen_interpretation if you want to understand more completely. That's why this finding of quantum mechanics is also called Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. If some of the values put into an equation cannot be pinned down exactly no matter what degree of accuracy you try for in the lab, then you will find that the world is messing with your mind. You do your best measurements on two occasions and it turns out that your exquisitely precise lab instruments give you the same values. You do your calculations and of course starting with the same numbers they will end up with equal values on the 100th iteration. However, neither measurement set was true to the reality it tried to measure. The values you took for determinate did not in fact reflect reality because the reality they were trying to measure is not determinate itself. (I'm skimming over the fact that for things like predicting the weather there are bound to be all sorts of everyday experimental measurement error that in theory we might get rid of, but in practice we not only don't have perfect instruments but we also only measure samples and hope they are reasonably representative.) So lots of people believe that what happens in the universe involves an inevitable randomness stemming from the very nature of that reality. Think of all the billiard balls corralled in a triangular form and then getting whacked by a ball and spinning out all over the place. If the Uncertainty Principle works the way physicists believe it does, and the breaking up on the orderly array of billiard is taken for an analogy for the beginning of the universe, if you could recreate the universe from the very beginning, things would "split" some other way. If you believe that every time one billiard ball hits another billiard ball the trajectories will always be "infected" by the Uncertainty Principle, then you might not want to call the result "chaos," but it certainly is not nice and orderly. 