What is the cause of the downfall of the Spanish football team?
Spain, the most dominant force in world football for the past 6 years is now facing a tough task or rebuilding, transitioning or whatever you may like to call it and it's not going to well for Del Bosque's men.     Let's start with the defence, Iker Casillas, the Real Madrid and Spain's beloved, many people wouldn't count him in the world's top best 5 honestly, the departure of Puyol has just shown he's not good enough on his own. He's one of the good GKs around but not up there with the best. Puyol, left a massive void in that Spanish defence and now, Ramos and Pique who are very good but not the leader or as charismatic as Puyol.     Spain, who started this tiki-taka style which absolutely tore teams apart for the past decade or so now have been caught out, and teams set up to counter this. Netherlands in the worldcup and also a recent friendly demonstrated that this style isn't good enough or the current crop of Spanish players(exceptional) but aren't good enough for executing this style of play. More ever, Del Bosque doesn't seem to have a plan B.     The Spanish frontmen of yesteryears were Raul, Morientes, Villa and Torres.  These players concentrated on playing side of football and not bullying players around them and being a headache. So Diego Costa, although a worldclass striker doesn't quite fit into the mix and Spain suffered for this in the worldcup. The players around Costa, the likes of Pedro, Silva, Iniesta haven't been exactly helpful to Costa either. So that is the striking department gone too.     All in all, Spain need to rebuild. Football changes every few years, it moves from wing play to tiki taka to the Diego Simeone style rugged play and teams and manager's depending on the personnel they have at their disposal need to adapt and evolve. An excellent example of this adaptation was LvG's Netherlands, massive over achiever's in Brazil but not undeserved one's.     Del Bosque need's to find a style of play suitable to the current crop of Spanish players. These players are as talented, and some even more than their predecessors but you cannot have a team of 11 individuals, it needs to work as one and Spain need that. 