How did skydiving become a popular activity for amateurs?
The obvious answer is "that depends". Like most sports, it started from something else. Read a history of it on Wikipedia.  I basically created the page, many years ago, when Wikipedia was young, and a lot of people have touched it since... some adding some value... some seriously mucking it up.  But last I looked, it had a fair load of accurate info.  It started as a crazy experiment by somebody looking to save the lives of people in damaged balloons and then damaged heavier-than-air craft. Then it eventually became a military life-saving tool and a delivery method for soldiers and supplies (see, for example, paratroopers, HALO, HAHO and other variants).  After the second world war, some returning soldiers who had jumped as paratroopers, as well as some airforce and navy pilots got their hands on some surplus military parachute gear and tried jumping as a bit of crazy fun. It caught on with the adrenaline crowd at the time. After a while, they began extending the delay from the time they'd leave the aircraft until they'd deploy the parachute, and that soon became the most-fun part of the jump. Eventually, they taught themselves how to fall stable and to control themselves in freefall, before deploying the chute.  They formed clubs, and the clubs formed associations, both national and international that were often associated with other aeronautical pursuits (FAI). The USA got the United States Parachuting Association and Canada grew the Canadian Sport Parachuting Association. Other countries did much the same. Shortly after the first civilian jumpers started using military surplus equipment, some of them started modifying the gear, to make it more usable, by adding holes in the back to create a little forward drive and to allow some steerability.  Still they were barely more than (really tough) giant umbrellas, with very limited range and very limited ability to counter a breeze.  Most jumpers landed moving backwards, and the PLF (parachute landing fall) - the jumper's version of a judo fall was de rigeur. Still, they thought they were having fun.  As early as the 1960s, some people began trying to improve on the basic round military life-saving or cargo-delivery designs. They used material similar to what the military used, but tried some different shapes. The first attempts were still round, but had the apex pulled down to make the chute almost flat on top, and had numerous vents at the sides and backs, with their own control lines, allowing greater forward speed (so greater range and ability to penetrate wind) and faster, more responsive turning.  Some early ones (that I've jumped) were the ParaCommander and the Crossbow. Somebody had the bright idea that a design basically similar to the ParaCommander, but with an overall triangular plan (with one corner being the nose) would "penetrate the wind better, for better forward speed and maneuverability". That one was called the Thunderbow. I had one. On a good day it might've gotten a mile-per-hour better speed than a ParaCommander, and two miles per hour better than a Crossbow.  As they were developing these shapes, they were also developing ways to slow down and smooth out the opening of the parachute, so as not to brutalize the body that was wearing it. Things like sleeves and "diapers" and "spiders" and even hydraulic shock-absorbers were tried, with varying success. Somebody else came up with a design that looked (when deployed) a lot like the early, triangular hang-gliders, but without the frame. It was just a single-layer triangle of fabric with the middle seam pulled down and the back end wide open. It was called the Pteradactyl, and could outrun the earlier round and round-like parachutes. However, it was finicky to fly and had unpredictable and often brutal openings.  I never tried one. That was one design that tried to control openings with the hydraulic reefing system, as it was called.  The two guys in our club who acquired one between them soon found out that the valve adjustments on the cylinders weren't quite adjustable enough for how thick and sluggish the oil became in cold weather (this was in Canada and we were a university club, so we jumped mostly during Fall, Winter, and Spring).  After gaining many black and blue marks and a funny walk, from all those hard openings, Dave and Duff finally gave up on the beast, even though, when it did deploy properly it could run rings around other sport canopies (which in turn could run rings around the modified military surplus rigs on which we were still training students, into the 1980s). As with any activity, some people kept cooking up ways to make it a competition. Landing accuracy was an obvious one.  Others put together sequences of moves (called "Style") that a single person could perform in freefall, watched from the ground through binoculars by judges who graded for precision and speed of execution.  Others began learning to fall in proximity, controlling their rate of fall, forward speed, orientation, sideslips and other maneuvers that allowed them to hook up in small groups. So it became a competition to see how quickly a "star" could be built, with a given number of participants.  When larger planes were available to carry more people at one time, the stars got bigger. Gatherings, get-togethers, jamborees were held to bring skydivers together. These included competition in the emerging disciplines, and a lot of beer drinking and socializing after the last plane-load of each day.   Some people started commercial ventures teaching people to jump from "perfectly good airplanes" and providing a place for experienced jumpers to get together with other jumpers, get their equipment inspected and fixed, buy new gear, etc.   A few of those, especially in year-round-weather places like Florida, Arizona, California, became roaring successes, able to upgrade and expand facilities, add services, and with enough jumpers to support the costs, bigger and better aircraft.   Other skydiving centers were more modest, providing a way for one or two people and some occasional staff to make a passable living while providing a place for their friends - really a big extended family in most cases - to gather and jump.  Most such places grew a campground and unofficial trailer park where regulars could keep a place to stay on weekends and holidays, and visitors could park an RV or set up a tent or crash in a bunk-house. In the late 70s, the early versions of ram-air wing parachutes (the precursors to the kind that everybody flies today) were becoming the sought-after equipment on dropzones. The flew faster and farther than the earlier generations that were all basically friction devices, but they were of course very crude compared to modern designs.  I had one of those, too, purchased third-hand, and a couple jumps on the StratoStar was enough to show me why the previous owner had been happy to part with it.   It was way better than a ParaSled (never had one of those), but was perhaps a tad undersized for my weight, and didn't have the aerodynamic properties to  allow skill to make up for ... um.... physics.  So, riggers and designers were rapidly improving the designs and performance of parafoil wings, while also streamlining the packs and deployment devices.  Everything was getting lighter, smaller, sleeker, and faster. Students were still being trained on old-style equipment and later graduated to parafoils.  First jumps were still static-line affairs, or similar process called Instructor Assisted Deployment - either you fell away ALONE from an aircraft and a static line pulled your pilot-chute from your pack (where it could then get the rest of the deployment going) or you fell away from an aircraft and the instructor in the aircraft held your pilot-chute in her/his hand and placed it in the airstream for you.  After a few of those, you'd start doing it yourself.  A big advance was the development of the Accelerated Freefall program, where a first jump was a couple of miles up, and was a freefall where two instructors held you securely and let you deploy your chute... or did it for you if you were too dazzled (or scared) by the experience.  You would progress to the point where just one instructor was needed and would let you go to try some basic control moves, and then you would go solo. At the same time, video recording equipment was getting smaller and becoming useful as a freefall coaching tool, so many instructors became freefall videographers. Meanwhile, skydivers as a class had developed an array of in-air skills, such that simply building stars or other single formations was no longer a challenge.  A competition was now groups of a given size (4 and 8-member teams were common, though 16-way, and even 20-way competitions were a regular occurrence... at least at larger centers where enough jumpers normally congregated)  performing intricate sequences of position and grip changes and patterns. Early-on, they would be viewed and judged from the ground, but eventually a videographer accompanied every competing team and the standings were determined by judges reviewing the video records.  Over the years, a few jumpers had rigged up special harness additions in order to take their pets for a skydive, and some even took their kids (we knew a guy near Montreal who did this, before it became "a thing". Naturally, somebody latched onto that and combined an extra-huge parafoil parachute with a formal - and rigorously tested - dual-harness configuration that became known as a Tandem parachute rig.  The instructor, or Tandem Master, could then take an inexperienced person (the Student) for a parachute ride. The Tandem Master did most of the work and all of the decision-making. Thus, an inexperienced person could 'enjoy' almost the complete experience of freefalling for a mile or so, followed by a lengthy parachute ride, all under the control of somebody with lots of experience and proven skill. The student (or joyrider) could participate or not - the parahute-steering-and-braking controls had extra handles that allowed the passenger to add their strength to that of the Tandem Master, which was actually a bonus for the Tandem Master, give how much more physical effort was required to control a huge parachute with double (or more) the suspended weight.   The Tandem Master ensured that freefall and parachute deployment went smoothly.  If it didn't, the Tandem Master was trained in the appropriate emergency procedures.  Problems were no more frequent than with single-person jumps, but they did occur from time to time, and it was often the case that the student didn't even know that they were riding to a safe, soft landing under a reserve parachute, rather than the expected main canopy.  As well as sequential formation contests in freefall, sport parachutists (skydivers) were always willing to push the envelope in other ways, and so there was an ongoing push to create larger and larger formations (with greater and greater numbers of participants) in freefall.  These would often be organized on an informal basis a few times a season or during special gatherings at clubs and centers, but larger formal attempts overseen by officials would attempt national and world-record formations. Those required a great deal of organization and logistics. It takes a lot of time, effort and cat-herding to get hundreds of skilled skydivers together, practiced, and ferried aloft in fleets of sizeable aircraft, guided by very talented pilots, proficient in formation flying as well as in parachuting-related flying.  It also takes cooperative weather, which puts some constraints on where and when such records are usually attempted.  Nobody wants 400 cranky skydivers and a dozen cranky pilots, plus alternates, plus teams of organizers and staff and friends and onlookers all crowded into hangars and airport offices  and under awnings and tents, watching the rain turn a landing zone into a sea of mud. But I digress. While all this was going on, some people were experimenting with freefall positions other than the "standard" face-to-earth, "flat-dumb-and-happy" position. They were calling it things like freestyle, and getting better at sit-flying and flying their bodies head-down. Others were making and buying and using ever-more-capable fabric wings to have over their heads, and the more adventurous, of course, would push the limits of each new design. Parafoil parachutes became smaller and zippier.  Some people put together canopy formations, and of course those grew and became more complicated.  Others excelled in manouvers (usually extreme diving, close to the ground) that gave them greater and greater speed just before landing, which in turn allowed them to swoop greater and greater distances with their toes skimming the grass... or the water.  Swoop accuracy became the rage for while. You would start your run by passing a certain point on the ground at an altitude lower than a predetermined height, and then glide and glide and glide and finally touch  a tiny target with your toe.  It wasn't long before swoops were hundreds of feet long, and target hits were more frequent than misses - at least among the elite. So of course they started grading for style.  And then they put up obstacles to swoop around (usually something large but yielding like an Airblade or an inflated structure).    Pond swoops were judged by the greatest rooster-tail. Equipment was becoming better and better, and safer and safer. Automatic activation devices became better and better at ensuring jumpers got under an open parachute, so the most reckless skydivers took to killing themselves by straining physics and their abilities under perfectly functional canopies, by doing stupid stuff just above ground level. The most common causes of injury and death became misjudged hook-turns, used to generate maximum landing/swooping speed.     With not much more in the way of horizons and frontiers to open up, some jumpers turned to modifying their jump clothing for greater and greater lift and propulsive capability.  Swoop suits became wing suits.  When even that didn't seem enough, some added tiny jet engines.   You can watch dozens and dozens of videos of wing-suit jumpers flying a few feet above rocky and tree-covered (sometimes structure and people-covered) slopes that they've determined are exactly the angle that they can fly their suits.  Very exciting.  So, to answer your question, the sport has become more attractive due to small portable video, the internet bringing those videos to everyone, and due to Tandem parachuting turning the first jump from something that YOU accomplished, in charge of your own fate from the moment you exited the airplane, into a ride that anyone can take if they have the money and aren't too hefty for the equipment. That, and the advancement of flashy aspects like swooping that are close-up and visible to audiences on the ground and are amenable to sponsorship by RedBull.   Cool. Give it a try. 