What product categories generate most volume in a grocery store?
The "average" supermarket in the US generates about $15-$20 Million in revenues per year, although, depending on store size, focus, competition and strategy/execution  the annual revenues can be as low as $5M to over $50M. Generally, the average supermarkets "cutout" of total sales breaks down as 50% in grocery (the stuff in the aisles and on displays), 15% in dairy and frozen foods, 10%+ in produce/floral, 10% in meat, 4% in deli and fresh bakery and the balance in general merchandise/health & beauty care/Rx and wine/liquor and beer (where available by state laws). These are averages and are influenced significantly by the strategy being executed by the store or chain. For example, Whole Foods and Fairway have a more significant focus on fresh foods where price impact chains on the other end of the spectrum (Aldi, Sav-a-lot) have most of the revenues in grocery packaged goods. Generally speaking, perishables departments have much higher gross margins but also have much higher labor costs, capital expenditures (for refrigerated cases), energy costs and transportation costs. It is obviously much cheaper to warehouse, ship and packout packaged goods versus refrigerated and frozen merchandise. As a rule of thumb: the lower the gross margin percent on an individual item the higher the sales volume because of competitiveness. Each department has its volume leaders which are generally identified by the amount of product put out for sales versus other products. In produce it is bananas, packaged salad/lettuce, etc. In meat it is chicken and ground beef. In grocery you can generally tell the best sellers also by how much product is on the shelves and what items/commodities are on the bottom shelf because more shelf space is needed to stay in stock, bottom shelves have more holding capacity because the shelf above is placed higher up as well as the fact that– generally speaking–best sellers carry a lower gross margins because they are more competitive (see 5# bags of sugar and saltines next time you are in a store). Best sellers are destination items and the store knows you will look for them and bend down to get them. "Eye level" shelf placement is usually reserved for higher margin goods so you see them easier (and hopefully pick them up and put them in your cart!). By the way–one of the the highest unit volume pharmacy/Rx items is birth control pills! 