In how many ways can one tie a tie? Which of these look 'good'?
Strictly speaking the only thing that limits the numbers of ways to tie a tie is the total length of a 'standard tie'. Each turn of a knot uses up some amount of the length of tie, limiting the total turns that can be made. Based upon this 'standard length' and aesthetic conditions (you definitely won't like a tie with a very big knot and just a couple of inch of free end hanging out, would you :P), in their paper (and the book mentioned by Trace Evans), Fink and Mao use an upper limit of 9 steps (or turns) to come up with the number 85. They have modeled the problem as a problem of random walk on a triangular array as shown below: So from our experience of tying ties we know that essentially we have a thinner and smaller end that we keep fixed and a broader bigger end that we manipulate to form the knot. To start the know the broader end is passed under or over the smaller one. This forms a Y shape. Now any further steps are carried around this Y shape. Now the Y shape essentially divide the region into three sub-regions: left, right and center (center being the region at the top between the two prongs of the Y). Moreover, in a particular step of tying the knot, we either take the broad end into the Y or out of the Y (as shown in the figures below:) ⊗ represents the into the plane while ⊙ represents out of the plane. So that L⊙ means out of the plane on left side (say, wrt to the viewer in front) and R⊗ represents into the plane on right side. Coming back to modeling the problem as random walk, in the above lattice you are allowed to walk only along the axes l, r, c (NOT opposite). Moreover due to the symmetry of the tie (we can make the same tie starting from either left or right region, i.e. when the broad part is manipulated for the first time it can either be taken into (or out of) left or right region and we can get the same knot if we just change all the right hand steps to left hand steps and vice-versa in the following steps) we start with a l (left hand side) without loss of generality. Further more it is also interesting to note that there are only two ways to end a tie. You bring the broad part out of the left (or right) region, L⊙; into the right (or left) region, R⊗; out of the center region, C⊙ and tug it into the loop just made (refer the figure below:) So we represent these endings as rlc or lrc (The T at the end is irrelevant because we always HAVE TO tuck the tie in the final step, so we shall not count it in the number of steps). Moreover, it can be understood that one l can't be followed by another one, i.e., one step in a particular region (l/r/c) can't be followed by another one in the same region. Thus after each step we have two choices of regions. Also, we can't have two steps in same direction (⊗ OR ⊙) consecutively. That is, two consecutive ⊙/⊗ can't occur. So given the fact that we always end with a ⊙ (in both the endings shown above), the size of the sequence decides the sequence of ⊙s and ⊗s. So in a knot of odd number of steps we HAVE to start with ⊙ and in one with even steps with ⊗. So our problems boils down to calculating the total number of sequences that start with l and end with lrc OR rlc with total elements less than or equal to 9 (remember we chose 9 as the limit of the number of steps that we could take to make a tie!) A little permutation and combinations give us a number 85- the total number of ways to tie a tie. BUT, not you wouldn't like to sport many of those combinations even in an informal occasion, let alone a formal meeting. Why? Because they are not all 'aesthetically beautiful'. Considering the fact that the ties need to be aesthetically beautiful Fink and Mao tell us that there are 10 such knots possible (6 other that those known traditionally and mentioned by Evans above). How did they come up with a measure of 'aesthetically beautiful'? They devised a parameter which measures the balance between the number of the right hand steps and the left hand steps in a particular knot. Moreover they correctly observe that a knot with a large number of C steps will be more cylindrical, making it unpleasant to look at. So they limit their search of beautiful ties in those knots in which 1/4 ≤ g/h ≤ 1/2. Where g/h is the ratio of the number of C-steps to the total number of steps. Using all this they come up with the number 10 for aesthetically beautiful knots. A good detailed mathematical description can be found in the reference [1] below. Reference [2] is the nature article by the authors mentioned above. References: [1]http://www.tcm.phy.cam.ac.uk/~ym... [2]http://www.tcm.phy.cam.ac.uk/~ym... Pictures taken from these articles. 