What are some benefits of reading?
Reading is a still a great way of taking your focus of attention off your everyday troubles and worries for a while as it transports you to seemingly better places of dream like and fantasy worlds. Books can stimulate and excite your imagination as well as arousing your curiosity, everything that exists and has ever existed is documented and can be found in a book, reading can teach you new skills, idea's and give you a new positive outlook on life. Books can take you out of your world and away from your personal perspectives and difficulties for a while as they let you into the private mind, the idea's and opinions of others. Reading has many benefits and a book can serve more than one useful purpose at the same time. It is a form of relaxation while at the same time it can stimulate your mind, reading can help you to feel better, books can be our teachers, mentors and inspirations. You can learn and better your life just by reading a book, authors and good writers can take you to places and imaginary worlds where no other form of entertainment or technology can rival. Your vast array of new found knowledge will help you to become more involved in discussions, you will be more able to instigate much more variable and interesting levels of conversations. Obtaining more information will give you a distinct advantage over the others because you will have gathered a much wider understanding of many subjects and topics of conversation. Limited knowledge can seriously hold you back and leave you feeling left out in some social situations.Story books can engage you in a world which is miles apart from our own, here you can have a glimpse of what goes on in the lives of many fictional characters, where you can experience empathy, sympathy and compassion with these make believe characters, this shows the power of you imagination as you bring these people and their experiences to life. You can travel anywhere in a book and you get to meet and engage with the author and their fantasy worlds. Fiction books will allow you to use your imagination to paint your own version of the images, characters, and places, every books can give a different representation of the characters and the location to each reader because every bodies imagination will perceive things slightly different. Reading requires you to use your creative imagination, stories stimulate curiosity and they intrigue you, books are the best way of stirring your creativity and absorbing knowledge. In fact reading has such a powerful influence it can change your emotional state, sad stories can make you feel sad, stories of inspiration can motivate and inspire us while happy stories can improve our mood. Be careful when you read negative feedback because it can have a strong impact on us and our future.Life becomes so much more interesting when you explore new avenues or you venture into somebody else is imagination and creativity. You can never stop learning nor should you our life is simply to short, you can take a book with you anywhere you go.Readers also find it easier to make decisions and are 10 per cent more capable of planning and prioritising. Dr Josie Billington, who partnered with Quick Reads to produce the report, concludes that this may be because readers are more able to recognise that difficulties and setback are unavoidable aspects of human life. It is not simply that we feel better about our own problems but that we have a greater capacity for empathy. With just 30 minutes of reading a week, two thirds of readers report a better understanding of other people’s feelings.  Reading is one of the cheapest forms of entertainment, it is even free on the internet or libraries. It can stimulate your analytic thinking abilities and skills, when you read a story your mind will jump ahead of you and it will try and work out and second guess the developing plot or mystery. When you read a book you will expand your awareness and knowledge, each book or article will make you more wiser and intelligent, reading will also help to improve your vocabulary and if you enjoy writing, well written books will help you to improve your own writing abilities. 