How does the MOT justify the simultaneous formation of bonding and antibonding of the molecular orbital? How does the existence of the antibonding orbital result in the formation of a molecule?
Molecular orbital theory describes how atomic orbitals mix together in molecules.  It mentions that two possible interactions can occur between two atomic orbitals in a molecule.  The first is the 'in-phase' interaction, which can be seen as constructive interference between wavefunctions (which describe the orbitals' shapes) emanating from the atoms.  The second is the 'out-of-phase' interaction, and is the destructive interference phenomenon of wavefunctions.  At times, nodes or absent orbitals can arise from the mixing of orbitals, in such a way that a phase cannot be properly described (because it is getting equal amounts of constructive and destructive interference at the same time). An easy way to illustrate the phenomenon of forming bonding and anti-bonding orbitals is to look at hydrogen and trihydrogen cation.  The hydrogen molecule, H2, comes with s orbitals, which are spherical.  When they mix in phase, they form a strong bonding orbital.  If they mix out of phase, they form a strong antibonding orbital.  We call the bonding orbital the sigma orbital, and the antibonding orbital the sigma-star orbital.  If we use other orbitals such as p and d orbitals, we get less overlap compared to pure s orbitals, and the energy separation between the bonding and antibonding orbitals will be smaller.  The size of energy separation between a bonding orbital and antibonding orbital of the same type increases in this order: f > d > p > s.  If you have more lobes in your atomic orbitals and need to overlap several of these at once, you are going to create weak overlap, and this is why spherical s orbitals overlap so well, compared to the four-lobed d and eight-lobed f orbitals. The hydrogen molecule is a very simple model that can help us understand the bonding and antibonding orbitals that form in molecular orbital theory.  As each atom starts with just a s orbital, each atom starts at a single energy level.  When they approach each other, and begin to overlap the wavefunctions making up the s orbitals, the bonding and antibonding orbitals begin to form. This in effect slowly lowers the energy of the bonding orbital, and stabilizes the forming H2 molecule.  At the same time, the antibonding orbital rises in energy, as the two atoms approach each other.  Even though the sigma-star orbital is empty, it is essential for situations that involve extra electrons and atoms entering the scene.  The energy diagram for the H2 molecule is shown below: Without the mixing of the s orbitals, we would not have either the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) or the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO).  The HOMO of hydrogen looks like this: See the in-phase interaction among the two s orbitals?  The way that the two spheres have merged with the same color tells us that this is a sigma bonding orbital.  This is what stabilizes the molecule as it forms from two hydrogen atoms.  By placing the two electrons in the HOMO energy level, the whole molecule is stable.  It will have a harder time staying together if one electron were to be pulled out, leaving us with a hydrogen molecule cationic radical.  Removal of a single electron weakens the bonding orbital, but the remaining electron is still shared equally among the two hydrogen atoms. The LUMO of hydrogen shows us what happens when we allow destructive interference between the s orbitals, seen below: As the two s orbitals are out of phase, they are repelling each other.  This is a destabilizing phenomenon, and will also weaken the hydrogen molecule if it were to be occupied.  Adding an electron to the H2 molecule weakens the bond between the hydrogen atoms, and the new anionic radical is less stable than before.  If we were to add two electrons to a H2 molecule, we break the molecule apart, because we have filled up both of the HOMO and LUMO.  A H2 dianion is completely unstable, since the bond order (determined by counting the number of electrons in bonding orbitals and subtracting from those occupying antibonding orbitals) is zero.  The two radical forms of H2 discussed before have a half bond order, while the intact H2 molecule has a bond order of one. Let us examine what happens to the H2 molecule when a proton, deprived of its electron, approaches the molecule.  Its empty s orbital can interact with the HOMO and LUMO of the H2 molecule.  Having both orbitals there makes mixing with other orbitals possible, so that is why both occupied and unoccupied orbitals play a role in chemistry and formation of molecules. As the s orbital of the proton mixes with the HOMO and LUMO, stabilization occurs when the interference between the wavefunctions is managed in an efficient manner.  The resulting molecule, H3 cation, is one of the most abundant molecules in our universe.  The energy diagram of the triangular H3 cation looks different, below: Notice the two LUMO energy levels?  This means that the incoming s orbital of the proton is mixing in different ways with the old H2 orbitals.  The HOMO of the H3 cation looks much like that of H2 (below), and is substantially stabilized (its energy is greatly lowered). All three s orbitals are forming a bonding orbital with each other in the H3 cation molecule.  In effect, this delocalizes the two electrons kept in the triangular array of atoms.  The LUMOs of the H3 cation look slightly different (below), and are both non-bonding and antibonding. Here, the proton's s orbital is out of phase relative to the fully formed sigma bond of the original H2 molecule.  It has equal amounts of bonding and antibonding interactions between the atoms, and is shared equally among all three atoms.  As before, delocalization makes all of the interactions equal among each H-H bond.  The second LUMO (below) shows a different kind of mixing among the three s orbitals. Notice the absence of one s orbital in the diagram?  The original LUMO of the H2 molecule is still here, but because the proton's s orbital cannot decide on which phase to be, it is absent in the new LUMO.  The hydrogen atom whose s orbital is absent in the second LUMO is experiencing equal constructive and destructive interference between the s orbital wavefunctions, so it is defined as a 'non-bonding' situation.  As before, the original LUMO is shared among all three atoms, and is delocalized.  The mixture of interference seen in the two LUMO diagrams is the same, so both of the LUMOs are at the same energy.  This gives us the phenomenon of orbital degeneracy, pretty much the same kind we see in atomic orbitals. The H3 cation is not stable when electrons are added to it, because that reduces the bonding order among the three hydrogen atoms.  It also loses stability when an electron is pulled out of the molecule.  Bond order is important in determining relative stability of different electronic states for a molecule. To summarize, any kind of atomic orbital mixing will always produce sets of bonding and antibonding orbitals.  In special conditions, non-bonding combinations can arise from these orbitals.  Depending on how these orbitals are filled up with electrons, stability of these mixtures can vary.  A great way of looking at the pairwise formation of bonding and antibonding orbitals is Huckel molecular theory, which provides a toolbox for examining organic molecules containing p orbitals in double bonds.  It is an especially easy method to implement on computers, so there are Java applets dedicated to it. 