What is the difference between billiards, pool and snooker?
Billiards games are divided into 2 types : carom billiards and pocjet billiards. Both carom billiards and pocket billiards (pool) are cue sports.  Billiards as a general class of games is played with a stick called a cue which is used to strike billiard balls, moving them around a cloth-covered billiard table bounded by rubber cushions attached to the confining rails of the table. Carom or carambole billiards (often simply called "billiards" in many varieties of non-British English) is a type of billiards in which the table is bounded completely by cusions, and in which (in most variants) three balls are used. Pocket billiards,most commonly called "pool", is a form of billiards usually equipped with sixteen balls (a cue ball and fifteen object balls), played on a pool table with six pockets built into the rails, splitting the cushions. The pockets (one at each corner, and one in the center of each long rail) provide targets (or in some cases, hazards) for the balls.The two types of billiards have developed into a wide array of specific games with widely divergent rules, and require equipment that differs in some key parameters.  Skill at one type of billiards-family game is widely applicable to the other, but expertise usually requires at least a degree of specialization.  A few games such as English billiards are hybrids, using carom balls on pocket tables, and snooker, a non-pool-based pocket game, also uses such tables.Both carom billiards and pocket billiards (pool) are cue sports.  Billiards as a general class of games is played with a stick called a cue which is used to strike billiard balls, moving them around a cloth-covered billiard table bounded by rubber cushions attached to the confining rails of the table. Carom or carambole billiards (often simply called "billiards" in many varieties of non-British English) is a type of billiards in which the table is bounded completely by cusions, and in which (in most variants) three balls are used. Pocket billiards,most commonly called "pool", is a form of billiards usually equipped with sixteen balls (a cue ball and fifteen object balls), played on a pool table with six pockets built into the rails, splitting the cushions. The pockets (one at each corner, and one in the center of each long rail) provide targets (or in some cases, hazards) for the balls. The two types of billiards have developed into a wide array of specific games with widely divergent rules, and require equipment that differs in some key parameters.  Skill at one type of billiards-family game is widely applicable to the other, but expertise usually requires at least a degree of specialization.  A few games such as English billiards are hybrids, using carom balls on pocket tables, and snooker, a non-pool-based pocket game, also uses such tables. Snooker is a cue sport played on a table covered with a green cloth or baize, with pockets at each of the four corners and in the middle of each of the long side cushions. A full-size table measures 11 ft 81⁄2 in × 5 ft 10 in (3569 mm x 1778 mm), commonly referred to as 12 × 6 ft. The game is played using a cue and 22snooker balls: one white cue ball, 15 red balls worth one point each, and six balls of different colours: yellow (2 points), green (3), brown (4), blue (5), pink (6) and black (7). The red balls are initially placed in a triangular formation, and the other coloured balls on marked positions on the table known as "spots". Players execute shots by striking the cue ball with the cue, causing the cue ball to hit a red or coloured ball. Points are scored by sinking the red and coloured balls (knocking them into the pockets, called "potting") in the correct sequence. A player receives additional points if the opponent commits a foul. A player (or team) wins a frame (individual game) of snooker by scoring more points than the opponent(s). A player wins a match when a predetermined number of frames have been won. Snooker, generally regarded as having been invented in India by British army officers, is popular in many of the English-speaking and commonwealth contries with top professional players attaining multi-million-pound career earnings from the game. The sport is now increasingly popular in china. Billiards image:- ​ Pool's image:- ​ ​ Snooker's image:- ​ 