What are the most surprising or interesting aspects, from defense technology perspective, of China's military parade on September 3, 2015?
Jon Davis's examination will be ("is," if he's done before me) close to definitive (based on the first chunk out there). I thought the other stages in this Lollapalooza affair were just as interesting. Out near Alaska, five Chinese warships, were sailing through the Aleutian archipelagic waters under innocent passage. That's fine. The US does it all the time, either to get somewhere or to strengthen the lawful nature of the activity. For this second instance, it's often called "Freedom of Navigation Operations" and is planned like any military operation, starting with higher orders from the US government. The interesting part? The Chinese really don't do this and have chosen this time to steam around with two fingers in the wind (I'll let you guess which two are most likely). This is an obvious response to the US doing the same thing in the South China Sea. I'm still trying to figure out if the Chinese were hoping for more of a US reaction (as opposed to none). The second may have no connection with the Chinese government, but a video has started gaining ground showing the PLA "retaking" some island. There's no doubt about who the adversary is, nor how the makers see the Chinese chances (let's just say they're playing a piano with one hand and sinking ships with the other). It shows some of the tech they have and some of the tech they hope to have, along with some... optimistic demonstrations of their capabilities. Some of these pieces were on display in the parade. What's not encouraging for the protagonists is that the quality of the CG is below that of even last year's Call of Duty games. I am more and more convinced that this bit may be entirely for internal consumption. There wasn't any tech that surprised or worried me in the parade. Parades are good at rousing the population, not cowing the rival. Get the workers moving faster, the tax payers less grumbly, and the soldiers sweating more. Of course, with 300k fewer, the rest would need to sweat more, anyway. That was the third instance outside the parade that was interesting. It cuts across the normal message, though, where might is displayed in numbers. I can't see how it fits in the message, but the stock market lashing the economy, even for several months, seems unlikely to be a cause. For the rest, seeing as they're crafting this as a celebration of how they defeated Fascism and drove out the hated Japanese aggressors 70 years ago, there are several countries in the region who are willing to order up new textbooks and nod ingratiatingly to some revisionist history. The parade was for them and the Chinese people. It seemed very nice. The rest of the world is left to scratch their heads and keep ordering goods from China, working on the correct spelling of "inscrutable." 