What are the most surprising or interesting aspects, from defense technology perspective, of China's military parade on September 3, 2015?
Unexpected features of the parade: The parading troops were equipped with vanilla QBZ-95 rifles as opposed to the QBZ-95-1 rifles that rectified the ergonomic issues of the former. The latter is already equipping PAP anti-terrorism units and SOF units on anti-piracy missions off the coast of Somalia which is why it's a mystery as to why it wasn't issued to parading troops. The Chinese multicam pattern on the second marching formation has never been seen before. However, it is likely purpose-made for the parade and this will be the first and last time we see of them. Body armour on troops mounted on their vehicles. The PLA, due to not anticipating war in the foreseeable future, rarely issues body armour to its personnel, which has an expiry date of a few years. However, they have for this parade, which ties in with the first point; if the PLA wanted to present their troops in prime fighting condition, why not also give them the latest small arms? Unexpected revelations: The PLA is shrinking by 300,000, bringing the total number of active troops to 2 million. The DF-26, like the DF-21D, is capable of tracking and hitting enemy vessels. Thus far, the public has only been aware of the latter being capable of targeting moving ships, now it looks like China has two of them.Confirmations of public consensus: The DF-21D is capable of hitting moving enemy vessels. The DH-10 cruise missile is in active service. The DF-5B is capable of hitting all US territory. The WZ-10 and WZ-19 attack helicopters are capable of carrying 8 ATGMs and two rocket pods under their wings. Previously, various Western military enthusiasts claimed that the two helicopters can barely carry 4 ATGMs due to an unfounded and deluded belief in the inferiority of Chinese powerplant technology. The KJ-500 AEW&C aircraft is in active service, consisting of a three AESA arrays in a triangular arrangement to provide full 360 degrees radar coverage on a Y-9 airframe. The J-15 carrier-bourne aircraft is in active service with limited serial production. That's about it for surprises and mildly unexpected news. For military enthusiasts, this parade was mostly about getting HD pictures of already-known weapons as opposed to any revelations. Now, onto correcting some inaccuracies in the answers of other members. The ZTZ-99 is not a copy or improvement or modification of the T-72. It was a tank developed in response to the realisation that a copy of the T-72 was going to get annihilated by NATO like the Iraqi T-72s in the first Gulf War. The configuration of the tank resembles the T-72 but it is as much a copy of the T-72 as the Type-10 is a copy of the K-2 on basis of their both having hydro-pneumatic suspension. Speaking of suspension, the ZTZ-99 has hydro-pneumatic suspension in the front two road wheels and torsion bars on the rest. The T-72 has torsion bars on all wheels. The ZTZ-99 is equipped with the ZPT-98 125mm main gun, which is not a copy of the 2A46 Russian 125mm tank gun, unlike the ZTZ-96 tank which is equipped with a copy of the 2A46. The ZPT-98 gun has higher bore pressure than the 2A46 and has a design philosophy similar to Western gun designers such as Rheinmetall. The base design of the ZPT-98 was the 120mm BWK120 gun on the PTZ-89 tank destroyer designed in the 80s. The rifle that resembles the Type-81 rifle is actually the QBZ-03, which is a non-bullpup version of the QBZ-95. They are for paratroopers and border defence units who prefer the sights on the 03 as they are spaced further apart so there is a smaller margin of error when aiming compared to the sights on the 95, which are spaced closer together. Also, the Type-81 is not a copy of the AK-47. Seriously, this "Chinese people are retarded and can't innovate" bullshit is getting old, get your heads out your arses, please. The ZBD-2000 is not the designation used by the PLA for their amphibious landing tank. The correct designation is ZBD-05. The ZTQ light tank was not in the parade. The vehicle that Jon Davis misidentified as the ZTQ is the ZBD-03, an air-dropped IFV similar to the BMD-3, designed to give paratroopers a little more firepower than they traditionally had. 