What is the difference between billiards, pool and snooker?
They are three different sports- they just belong to the same class i.e cue sports.Let us start with pool Pool is played on a small table (6 feet * 3 feet). This means that it is typically much easier to play pool than the other two There are also many variations of pool. The most common are 8 ball pool and 9 ball pool. In 8 ball pool there are 7 solid and 7 striped balls and a 8/black ball, to win the  player must pot his type(i,e solids or stripes) and then the black. In 9 ball pool, only 9 balls are on the table, each player pots the balls in order, starting from the ball numbered 1, the person to pot the 9 ball wins. There are many other rules but this is how you play the game of pool. Now Snooker Snooker is played on a much larger table.(12 feet * 6 feet) you will feel the magnitude only when you see or play on one. Snooker is much more fun and complicated(The element of safety pay exists primarily in snooker) than the other two sports :P Snooker also has a much bigger audience and the prize money involved in snooker is quite high. Now for the rules, There are 15 red balls and then there is one of each yellow, green, brown, blue, pink, black colored balls. Needless to say there is the cue ball. Each colour has a designated spot on the table. Each colour also has a designated value/points. Y-2 G-3 Brown-4 Blue-5 Pink-6 Black-7 The game can be divided into two phases, when there are red balls on the table and when there are no red balls. Potting a red carries 1 point. When there red balls on the table, the player first has to pot a red followed by a color, when the color is potted the colour ball is respotted in its spot, and then a red has to be potted this continues till there are no more reds. After this the colours are potted in the order of points, and this time they are not respotted, this is when the game ends. The one with higher points wins. Now, there is the concept of safety play/snookers in snooker which I will briefly explain. When you don't fancy a pot, you then make life hell for your opponent by placing the cue ball in a tough position, tight on the Baulk cushion is usually a good idea. When you place the cue ball directly behind a colour ball when the opponent has to play a red, he is said to be snookered. He then has to hit one or more cushions to try hit the balls, or he can spin it on the table. Jumping is illegal in snooker. Here is a random video of one of the greatest players, But be warned, the pros make the sport look ridiculously easy, it's not. Billiards There are many types of billiards but English billiards is the most common. It is played with 3 balls, yellow,white,red. Yellow and white are cue balls for the two players. One for each. Points are scored by potting, in-offs( cue ball is potted) and cannons( Cue ball hits both other balls before coming to rest) It is usually played as a race to a set number of points, or as a timed game. Start playing the game, you will fall in love with it. Updated 106w ago • View Upvotes