Intel Haswell CPUs have 22nm processor technology - what exactly is 22nm in Haswell CPUs?
22 nanometer - Wiki has a good outline of the semiconductor roadmap. ITRS Home Used to refer to half the distance where the smallest recurring features appear on a transistor array inside a chip.  This is the key parameter that has dictated the miniaturisation of microelectronics in the past 50 years. In practice, this used to be related to the gate length (L) of a MOSFET: However, this is no longer the case with Intel's Tri-gate transistor technology. The new gate geometry was adopted because the nominal thickness of the SiO2/hi-k insulating layer would be roughly 0.5nm, or ~2atoms thick, which means that quantum tunneling of charge carriers becomes significant, increasing the static power dissipation of the device to unacceptable levels. Till ~45 nm chips scaled linearly for the most part, so following Moore's law was very possible. Nowadays, it's becoming increasingly difficult to make smaller transistors. We're even pushing the diffraction limit of light. The best UV laser we have is 193nm, but you want to etch those pesky 22nm features. Here cometh Immersion lithography, which uses an the diffraction of light to go smaller. Add extra patterned multi-level masks to further triple that resolution, and with a bit of luck & physics that border magic, you might just get down to 22nm. The tri-gate isn't a 3-dimensional transistor in the classic sense, because it's still grown using planar (2d) epitaxy. Instead it referes to the fact that charge carriers do come in from 3 directions. In fact, this "Pi" configuration of a transistor goes a bit closer to the ideal transistor, which according to pure electromagnetics it would be a perfect sphere. Sadly, there's no way to fabricate that at the moment with our knowledge. To further confuse size issues, the gate length is no longer related to the transistor node, as it was preferred to have a slightly longer gate to prevent too many hot carriers. It gets better still. Intel engineers realised that rounded triangular gates further improve the conduction profile of the device (and avoid charge build-up).  a) cut through section b) above -- note that there is no scale bar, so actual sizes are up to debate. Intel to Present on 22-nm Tri-gate Technology at VLSI Symposium Why Have Intel's Finfets Changed Shape? | Electronics Weekly 2D current density plots at applied biases. In a recent conference that I've been, a group simulating FinFETs  believes that as more bias is applied to the device, charge moves from  the lower-mid part to the upper part of the fin, which is not very good  news. Speculating on novel structures is a favourite academia past time, but  the truth is, even within Intel, very few device physicists/engineers  have a full comprehension of the transport phenomena. here's some other unbelievable innovations Intel came up with. of note is the SiGe strained silicon used in Prescott Pentium4/D CPUs. The scientific community at large didn't really think that might be possible using conventional, large scale CMOS processes, yet they managed to pull it off. Greets/credits to Jacob VanWagoner 