What is the cause of the downfall of the Spanish football team?
Thanks for A2A. The primary reason is the adaptibility of the side to changing game around the world. Teams have changed-both theirs' and their rivals' but they haven't taken into account those changes. They relied on Tiki-Taka when they had Xavi in the form of his life along with a young Iniesta, Xabi and who not. Now, these players have aged and have been or are being replaced by a younger generation who aren't as great passers of the ball as their predecessors, although they are better at certain other aspects. Also, advancement of video technology has prepared their opposition much better to deal against Spain. Third reason is one that involves both players and Del Bosque- Team selection. After winning 2 euros and a world cup, certain players have virtually become untouchable and Del Bosque not being a strict disciplinarian is struggling because of that. Removing Casillas would result in a backlash and that is holding him back! The team is now being selected solely on basis of past reputation instead of current form. Players like DDG, Koke, Inigo Martinez ,who should be playing every game are still not regulars. Herrera, Mata should also be in their lineup which hasn't happened so far and that is leading to them effectively playing with their second string squad. Poor Defence and Poor attack- For all the creative talent Spain have, they seriously lack a great CB. Puyol was good but after his retirement, Spain haven't still been able to replace him. Pique is no more among the top 3 CB's. Ramos isn't the greatest defender, nor has he been for past few years(yes, he is an asset to any side but that is due to the attacking threat he poses). As far as strikers are concerned, their fall from a country with best strikers in 2010-12 to a country which prefers to sometimes play with 4-6-0 is huge. From Torres, Villa, Llorente, Soldado, Negredo to just Costa who hardly plays due to mysterious injuries he suffers a week before international break is indeed a great fall. Munir is too young, Alcacer inexperienced, Morata not deadly enough and Pedro is too 'Pedro'. So there you have it- Spain have effectively failed at the test of transition and failed to bring in the young players in when they should have and are paying the price for it now 