★Why does white light consist of many different wavelengths?In terms of energy states
White light is strictly a perceptual concept. What we call white light is incandescent light at a temperature of about 6000K. Loosely speaking, incandescent light is the distribution of light frequencies emitted by something that is hot. The distribution of frequencies is sort of like a bell curve that peaks at a value that is a characteristic of its temperature. It doesn't matter what the thing is made of, just its temperature. The incandescent light of room temperature objects is too low a frequency for us to see. But if you heat something up, it becomes red hot, then orangeish hot, yellowish hot, etc. But when you heat something up past yellow hot, it does't turn green hot, it becomes white hot. 'White hot' is what we mean by 'white light'. If you heat something up hotter than white hot, it turns a blueish white. Hotter than that, and the object's peak frequency shifts into the ultra violet, and we can't see it any more. So why do we see white light when the peak of the frequency distribution is in the green part of the spectrum? Presumably, its because that is the incandescent light at the temperature of the sun's surface, somewhere around 6000K, and our human visual system perceives daylight as 'neutral'. The sun is not a yellow star, it is a white star. If the sun were yellow, all snow would be yellow snow. This is why at night we see red stars, orange stars, yellow stars, blue stars and white stars, but no green stars. Note that it is the pattern of the distribution of frequencies of light that makes it 'white light'. You can change the distribution by, for example, shinning white light through a green filter: the filter removes frequencies of that that are not in the green part of the spectrum, and the 'white light' distribution is broken, so we don't perceive it as white. So the issue is not that white light consist of a spread of colors; the issue is that when we see that particular spread of colors, our visual system perceives it as 'neutral' or white.    Embed Quote