★Why does the light's wavelength change, and not frequency, during refraction?
This is a fun question that I've answered before for my kids! The short (totally valid) answer: the boundary conditions of EM waves implies that the frequency cannot change. Quick math reference of boundary conditions: That explains it all? Imagine that the frequency of the wave changed, the frequency of the two waves on either side of the boundary would be out of phase and it would be impossible to meet the boundary conditions. But that's just math! Fine, fine. Maybe phase isn't for you. What about energy conservation? You're convinced about that, right? What if the two waves have different frequencies? If maximum amplitude comes in (at a peak of the wave), and maximum amplitude does not come out - that extra energy goes into the boundary... Oh sh**. BUT THE SPEED OF THE WAVE CHANGES TOO. Well, you know. Just think about it like . If frequency doesn't change, both wavelength and speed have to change to accomodate it. Physically, I have a hard time coming up with a good analogy. But go back to what we were talking about with energy. If the wavelength changes, increases; I have to disperse my energy over a larger distance of the wave... but that means the energy per unit length coming out of the boundary decreases, but that violates energy conservation. To fix that, nature makes the wave faster. BAM. (Ashwin Singh) But light changes its direction too...how can it be explained by above description? Another good question. First, the underlying concept is Fermat's Principle (principle of least action/time). It is so fundamental in nature that even  ants follow Fermat's principle of least time (they change direction to minimize the time taken to cross a surface) In the same way that light has the wave-particle duality, one might see light doing the same thing to across a boundary. That is probably the strongest argument for it - but it raises another question: how does the light know which angle to turn at? This puzzles me the most, but I have a nice analogy that has helped before - the roller-blade analogy. You're on roller blades gliding along a blacktop and you're heading towards a gravel boundary at an angle. One foot will hit the boundary first before the other foot (as gravel has more friction, slows you down a bit), and you start to rotate a little bit while moving forward until both feet are on the gravel. In this way, the rotation occurs because of a differences in friction, or in the case of light, a difference in the indices of refraction. To tie this analogy better with light waves, imagine that light does travel slower when it hits the boundary causing the spacing between successive waves to decrease, which changes the interference pattern (self-interfering?) and creates the new angle we observe. Now, if you're like me, where I sometimes forget things, and wonder why this answer is totally sufficient... and where the boundary conditions come from... let's take a dive into some deeper physics. I'll assume you're familiar with some introductory electricity and magnetism that you might get at a college level. What are the boundary conditions we talk about here? *This comes from a mixture of E&M books - I obtain pictures from Griffiths* Electric Fields The Gaussian Pillbox. I guess you know what I'm going to ask, right? Gauss' Law (Note for teachers of E&M - I always make it a habit to put vectors on my electric field and area vector to emphasize that dot product is how we can evaluate this in special symmetrical cases) There are 5 faces visible on the pillbox to be aware of. The faces tangential to the area vector (perpendicular to the surface) contribute nothing to the total flux. The perpendicular face (the one with denoted) contributes to the total flux. If we make the pillbox smaller (make it's thickness ), then the surface integral (Gauss' Law) becomes If you have trouble understanding the math, that's ... (more)Loading...