★Why does the light's wavelength change, and not frequency, during refraction?
So many complicated answers! It's not really that tricky. Let's start with something close to home. Here is a trainer making waves in a rope (watch only the first few seconds, before he starts alternating hands): The trainer moves his arms up and down (a complete cycle) about 2 times every second—that's the frequency, 2 cycles/second or 4π radians/second. Frequency is just how frequently his hands go up and down. Now, if you watch any segment of rope go up and down, it also has a frequency of 2 times per second: The trainer's hands at A go up and down every 2 second, so the rope segment in his hands does too. The rope segment at A goes up and down every 2 second, and it pulls on the rope segment at B, so B goes up and down every 2 seconds. And B pulls on C, so every 2 second, C goes up and down. I haven't said anything about the wavelength at all. Calculating the wavelength requires more: how much each segment of the rope weighs, for example. I don't know that number. But I know that however often the trainer moves his hands up and down, that's how often the first segment of rope goes up and down; and that determines how often the second segment of rope goes up and down, etc. If you added a different type of rope at the end, with a different weight (per length), it will move a different distance—but just as frequently, so it has the same frequency. Next up is light. Obviously light is way more complicated than a rope! But it's quite similar. This time it's the electric field that's increasing and decreasing. Let's look at just one part of the electric field, in the "z" direction: Here we have a light ray coming from the left and entering some medium, say a crystal. Even though the electric field everywhere is dancing, we can look just along one ray. Now here's the way that the electric field is just like the rope: The electric field at A "pulls" on the electric field at B, and the electric field at B pulls on that at C, and so on. The electric field wants to be smooth, so if you make it bigger in one place, it will "pull" the electric field nearby to be bigger so as to smooth itself out. Once it gets to the crystal, the electric field also pulls on electrons in the crystal, and the electrons also pull on the electric field. That's just like adding another rope with a different weight (per length). The electric field outside of the crystal "pulls" on the electric field inside the crystal. Outside, at point E, we have light with the electric field getting bigger and smaller once every T seconds. That's going to pull on the electric field inside the crystal, bigger and smaller every T second, so F is going to change just as frequently—that means with the same frequency.    Embed Quote