★Are wavelength and wavefunction of an electron two different things?
TL;DR: They are related but not quite the same thing.    So a wave function (or its square) is the the probability distribution function of where you'll find an electron (or whatever) if you performed repeated experiments with the same initial condition.  So for instance, if a particle is localized in a (harmonic)  potential, it has a wave function The wavelength is related to the momentum of the particle through Planck's constant The above wave function has a spread of momentum [*] So this particle has a spread of wavelengths.  Notice that this momentum wave function is symmetric about the origin. That means it has as much momentum going forward as backwards.  It also has support at the origin (p=0), this means there modes with arbitrarily long wavelengths.   So this doesn't really have a well defined set of wavelengths, we just know that the wavelengths are which means it doesn't have arbitrarily short wavelengths. If we approximate a particle moving at a constant momentum, this particle is known as a "plane wave" and has a wave function When we square this (by multiplying it by the complex conjugate this is a constant function.    So a particle with a  definite momentum and therefore a definite wavelength is spread out everywhere.  Believe it or not, this spherical cow approximation is good enough in many situations. Nevertheless, there are sometimes when you want to a particle localized and having some momentum, in this case you can combine the two by multiplying them together . This wave function has a spread of momenta Now when this particle has a small spread of momenta centered described by You can use Planck's relation above to relate this to wavelength (though you should be careful with the calculus of probability distribution functions) and you'll find something like . So these are two different, but closely related concepts.  The central value wavelength is related to how fast a particle moving and is a spatially varying phase out in front of the wave function, and the rest of the wave function is related to the spread of wave lengths around that central value wavelength. [*] I'm leaving out all the Fourier analysis that gives you these results.  If you know what it is, it is easy to do, if you don't then just take my word that these relations are correct.    Embed Quote