★How does intensity affect wavelength?By playing with a dimmer switch; changing the amount of current in the wiring, the color of a light bulb can be made to vary from white to red.  This variation affects the intensity of heat emitted by the bulb, but how does this variation affect wavelength?  In other words, how does intensity of heat influence light coloring?
In a "standard" lamp the light we observe is due to incandescence. In this process heat within the material causes motion of the component atoms/molecules, this motion results in charge acceleration or dipole oscillation which leads to the generation of thermal radiation. In the case of the lamp this heat is generated by passing an electric current through the Tungsten filament.  Because the mechanism of radiation is derived from the motion of the particles in the substance they emit radiation with widely varying frequencies (the actual frequencies generated are emitted with a Boltzmann distribution) Cheng Yao shows a really nice plot of this. In Cheng's plot you can see that the distribution has a definite 'peak' which represents the most common frequency/wavelength and, effectively, the color we observe.   An expression for the peak of this distribution was deduced by Wien in 1893 (and later confirmed theoretically by Planck) which is now known as Wien's Law. Wien's law states that the peak wavelength of the distribution is inversely proportional to temperature, i.e. Where is the peak wavelength, is the absolute temperature in Kelvin, and is a constant of proportionality known as Wien's Displacement Constant. For the purposes of estimation a good 'back of the envelope' value for Wien's constant is 2900 µm/K. So, as you can see, the hotter the filament, the lower (or blue-er) the peak wavelength, due to the way that our eyes perceive color once the wavelength shifts to the middle of the spectrum it is spread nicely over our frequency range and we perceive it as a nice, warm, yellowy white light.    Embed Quote