★The effective area of an antenna is directly proportional to the square of the incident wavelength. There are many textbooks that derive the relation between effective area and wavelength. But is there an intuitive explanation of this antenna gain and wavelength dependence?
Forget the amplitude. That's just a graph in an unreal dimension, and will confuse you. The antenna is ORTHOGONAL to the wave. The wavelength and the antenna are at right angles. So why does it matter? Because as the polarized plane wave passes the antenna with E field in the same direction as the antenna, a wave of electric current travels up the antenna (with the field along the antenna changing at nearly the speed of light), in response to the field. If the wave field passes and then starts to decrease  (one quarter of a wavelength goes past) before the antenna field reaches the end, so what? The antenna field just comes back down, with the antenna charge helping to maintain the now decreasing voltage. So too-long antennas are fine. But if the antenna field hits the antenna end before a quarter wavelength is past, then it has nowhere to go while the field is still increasing. The antenna then begins to resist like a capacitor that has started charging like mad (which is just what is happening) and less current flows. The signal is then not being as well intercepted, as the field from the antenna charge opposes the field of the signal. You can make a short antenna longer by adding a "load" or inductor, or simply coiling the thing up so it is effectively longer. If the wave is really long, you can give up, and simply try to sense the magnetic part. That's what loop antennas do. If you've ever looked inside an old AM radio you could find a ferrite loopstick, which is a magnetic antenna. It's just a lot of coils of fine wire on a ferrite rod, with the coils working best when each loop of coil is in the same vertical orientation of the radio station antenna. So, when working best, the ferrite core of the loopstick points horizontal to ground and at right angles to the direction to the radio station. All small loops work best when edge-on to their vertically polarized source, not "facing" it. How can such a thing absorb a wave that is 470 meters long? Well, the 470 meters is in the direction of the incoming wave and doesn't count. It is NOT 470 meters WIDE. So the antenna really needs no real physical length. It needs area, for the field to change in, and the loops all add up if connected, exactly like a transformer secondary. The 470 m wavelength radio wave passes right by all these little loops, each of which is only a fraction of an inch in area. No problem. The magnetic field, going side to side, changes the flux in the area of each loop which is "edge on" to the distant upright station antenna. If you pointed the area of the loops at the distant station (pointed the rod at that station) it would not pick up at all.    Embed Quote