★What is the physical meaning of Compton wavelength?This is an interesting quantity, but I'm not sure its physical significance. I'd like to listen to you guy's ideas. Thank you!
Compton wavelength is kinda the quantum mechanical cutoff - the length scale below which quantum mechanics can simply not be ignored in favor of classical approximations. Why is it so? What does it even mean? The explanation is fairly simple to understand. Consider a particle of mass . Now imagine you are trying to classically localize it (measure its position, for example). Essentially, you are going to be hitting it with a light beam. Not just that - you are going to need the wavelength of the beam to be comparable to the dimensions of the particle itself to be able to localize it better. If it is much bigger, then you are going to lose out on the position accuracy. Now consider the following question - Can you localize this particle with a light beam of wavelength ? The energy of the photons in this beam is given by the relation . Now, you might see the challenge. The photons of this beam are going to have an energy, . Ah! But, this is too much energy. It actually is sufficient enough to be able to create more particles of mass 'm'. Annihilation and particle production come into play at the scale of the particles mass in consideration. This is truly a scenario that cannot be described accurately without bringing into consideration quantum field theory. You'll end up with lots more particles than the one that you were just going to look at. In essence, one way to think of the Compton wavelength is that, it is a cutoff below which you won't do good just treating the mass in a 'classically relativistic' fashion. Quantum field theory needs to come into play. Historically, the quantity Compton wavelength was also identified during Compton's studies of light scattering by electrons. To sum it all up, the Compton wavelength is nothing but the wavelength of a photon whose energy is the same as the rest-mass energy of the particle. Note that, the Compton wavelength is a function of the mass. The greater the mass, the lower the wavelength cutoff and the easier it is going to be to localize it (The easier it is to ignore quantum mechanics. Classical physics comes into play). It is also for this reason that Planck constants (such as Planck mass/length, etc...) are defined as the values at which the Compton wavelength equals the Schwarzschild radius. At these values, general relativity runs into the event horizon zone, however the description is incomplete without considering quantum field theory. Now that is really a scale at which we understand nothing really. This is why Planck constants really define the scale at which a quantum theory of gravity is needed to be able to explain things correctly.    Embed Quote