★Why is it easier to detect radio wave than measuring the shorter wavelengths?
Detecing short wavelengths isn't exactly easy, either. It probably seems easy because biological organisms detect a certain range of wavelengths that happen to be shorter than radio wavelengths. But those organisms don't detect wavelengths shorter than those, either. We focus on those wavelengths for a number of reasons. They are the peak of the output of the nearby star, so there's a lot of it. (But not so much that we're in equilibrium with them; we don't do much with infrared because your eye itself is giving off those wavelengths.) They offer good resolution of the scale of objects we care about. And chemistry conveniently yielded receptors that can be made biologically, as well as a way to focus it. So we don't have to do anything special with those wavelengths. Everything else, higher and lower, requires some sort of receiver. There's nothing especially tricky about a microwave/radio wave receiver, though not with anything you'd want to put inside a biological organism. Focusing a meters-long wave requires a big dish, and detecting it is also easier if you have a big antenna. The really big dishes are primarily about wanting to be able to gather up a huge amount of energy so that we can receive very faint signals. Those are of special interest to us because they propagate well at astronomical scales, without being drowned out by local noise, or being too badly dampened by the atmosphere or astronomical dust. There's nothing especially tricky about their construction; it's primarily the large-scale challenges of engineering. Light's nice because it's so small that we can fit the receivers into a tiny package without a whole lot of amplification, and the frequency scale meshes well with molecules. But it's "complicated" in that you're messing with very tiny stuff: making chips that sense light requires really high technology, and even photo emulsions took a while to figure out. Glass lenses also helped, though for really high precision it turns out that reflectors are better than refractors. Nature doesn't really use relectors; it's a nice coincidence that eye lenses make for pretty good focusers without too much chromatic abberation. It took a while to figure out how to do the same with glass; doing the same with microwaves is less effective because the wavelengths are bigger, but it's not impossible. In other words... it's largely due to the coincidences of the scales at which life evolved. Had we evolved differently, it might have been different, but light-length scales fit a number of useful criteria. So it's not just longer but also shorter wavelengths that seem harder. But really, it's just that to us, light seems easier.    Embed Quote