How can one be well prepared to answer data structure/algorithm questions in interviews?
Apparently not all Google/Facebook engineers have 140+ IQ, but they are all good at data structure/algorithm in some ways. Although a high IQ, better sense of math and computer science may make it easier to acquire these skills, consistent learning and practicing are way important to majority of people. You don't need a math PHD degree to understand any of basic algorithms because most of them are quite straightforward. Then I'd like to answer your questions how to make yourself better at these kinds of questions: Build a sold foundation. All those interview questions are based on those basic knowledge that you learned at school and without clear understanding of them, there's no chance for you to be good at solving those questions. You may check Introduction to Algorithms and based on how familiar you are with these knowledge, some people choose to read the book from the beginning, some may just go over those important chapters and concepts. Technical interview cheat sheet has a list of basic data structures/algorithms that are important and popular to a technical interview. Write code to solve interview question. The second step is to practice with as many interview questions as you can. There are so many resources online and it's almost for sure that you won't be able to finish all of them. Here are a short list of resources I think are most helpful. Few things you'd better keep in mind. First of all, try to write down your solution instead of thinking your solution in mind. Most interviews will ask you to write down your code and you'll notice how different it is. Secondly, always refine your solution even if it works. You can make the algorithm faster or use less memory, you can also just make your code cleaner. Lastly, try to talk while thinking. It's important in an interview to keep communicating with your interviewer and it requires a lot of practice to feel comfortable with that. Keep practicing. Technical interview doesn't only evaluate your coding ability, but a variety of skills and abilities like communication skills, analysis ability etc.. Also many people will feel nervous solving a problem when someone is looking over his shoulder, thus he may even fail in the simplest questions. I'd suggest you to find a friend who is also preparing for an interview, you guys can conduct mock interviews with each other and try to be familiar with this kind of intense atmosphere.A lot of people also want to get good quality feedbacks from experienced interviewers. With that in mind, we worked on building Gainlo - Mock Interview with Professionals, which allows candidate have mock interview with experienced interviewers from top companies like Google, Amazon, Linkedin etc. and will get real feedback to help them improve. Obviously certain ways can make it easier for you to be better at interview questions and the key is really spending time and effort to keep learning and practicing. I've seen a lot people who are smarter than average but not super smart can be extremely good at data structure/algorithm, and they also did a great job at work. I think IQ should never be a problem for anyone in this industry, let alone 110-120 is already pretty high. 