What are some examples of depth or breadth first search applied to real life?
You're shopping. You need some new deodorant. They stopped carrying your favorite brand, so now you've got to pick a new one. This is your search field. There's something like forty brands, each with something like five varieties. So they stopped carrying your favorite brand. You look up and down the aisle, searching for this: But come up empty handed. What kind of search did you just do? Since your brain was concerned about a particular brand, your mental image of that brand likely caused your search to consider only the brand when searching. After all, you're looking for a "mostly white" in a sea of color. You're not too concerned immediately with finding the Fresh Scent or Original Sure varieties. And you certainly don't care about the Manly Man Axe variety. Imagine that all of the brands of deodorant were nodes in a tree at the same level. Imagine further that the varieties of any brand are child nodes of that brand's node. You could take this all the way up, imagining that the store is the root node. The sections of the store: grocery, lingerie, cosmetics, personal hygiene; nodes under the root. The sub-sections of each of these, child nodes of the parent. So under personal hygiene might be: dental needs, facial care needs, hair care needs, fragrances, deodorants. The search for Sure was a breadth-first search, if we ignore how you arrived at the deodorants node in the tree to begin with. But...how did we get to the deodorant section? Pretend for a minute that you have no idea what section of the store nor what subsection of the store you might find deodorant in. You need to search for it. You're a man, so you're afraid to ask for guidance. You'll find this shit on your own thanks very much. You start at the root node by entering the store. Then you wander over to grocery, going through the section like: grocery, fresh, grocery, frozen, grocery, boxed meals, grocery, dairy. Eventually you exhaust all the subsections of the grocery node, and wander out of the grocery section. [You "revisit the grocery node" each time you wander to a new sub-section of the grocery section.] Now you're revisiting the store node because you're done with the grocery node. But your search is not complete. So you wander over to lingerie. Similarly you go through the lingerie section like: lingerie, bra, lingerie, panties, lingerie, socks. Eventually again you exhaust all of the subsections of the lingerie node, and wander out of the lingerie section. Back to the store node. Continuing in this way eventually your traversal leads to: store, personal hygiene, deodorants, ... and you can stop. Well...almost. This search for deodorants was a depth-first search in this tree. Clearly not very efficient. But remember we started with the assumption that you had no idea where deodorants would be. But it's not necessarily true that a breadth-first search would have been quicker. You still need to pick a new deodorant. You could choose by brand and then by variety, or by brand and variety. In other words, you can do a breadth-first search through the brands and pick one that looks good, and then search through that brand's varieties, considering Axe before Old Spice, selecting Old Spice, then considering the varieties of Old Spice only. Or, you can do a depth-first search through the brands and varieties, considering all varieties of Axe before all varieties of Old Spice, etc. That is the difference. Smell well! 