What are the real world applications of Breadth First Search?
Breadth First Search is basically used to find a shortest path between any two nodes in a graph. Since, a graph can be used to represent a large number of real life problems such as road networks, computer networks, social networks such as facebook etc., Breadth First Search can be applied to solve a myriad of real life problems. GPS Navigation systems: Navigation systems such as the Google Maps, which can give directions to reach from one place to another use BFS. They take your location to be the source node and your destination as the destination node on the graph. (A city can be represented as a graph by taking landmarks as nodes and the roads as the edges that connect the nodes in the graph.) BFS is applied and the shortest route is generated which is used to give directions or real time navigation. Computer Networks: Peer to peer (P2P) applications such as the torrent clients need to locate a file that the client (one who wants to download the file) is requesting. This is achieved by applying BFS on the hosts (one who supplies the file) on a network. Your computer is the host and it keeps traversing through the network to find a host for the required file (maybe your favourite movie). Facebook: It treats each user profile as a node on the graph and two nodes are said to be connected if they are each other's friends. Infact, apply BFS on the facebook graph and you will find that any two people are connected with each other by atmost five nodes in between. To say, that you can reach any random person in the world by traversing 5 nodes in between. (I did not run BFS on facebook graph, it is a well known fact). What do you think is the new facebook "Graph Search"? (It is not directly BFS, but a lot of modifications over classic graph search algorithms.) Web Crawlers: It is quite an interesting application. They can be used to analyze what all sites you can reach by following links randomly on a particular website. (Even if you are mildly interested, look into it. It is fun). Updated 1 Oct 2013 • View Upvotes