How can one be well prepared to answer data structure/algorithm questions in interviews?
Originally Answered: What questions on algorithms, data structure and computer architecture are commonly asked in interviews especially in companies like Google, Microsoft, Quora, Amazon,  Wikipedia, Facebook, and LinkedIn?It really depends on your level and the applied position since interviews are definitely different between a new grad or a engineer manager. So my answer assumes that you are asking for general software engineer position, which applies for both new grad and people with years of experience. In general, a lot of data structure/algorithm questions are similar to "detect cycle in a linked list" in the way it's presented. Basically you are asked to solve a specific question that requires clear understanding of data structure and those basic algorithms. Usually solid code is required to write on a whiteboard and you will also be asked to analyze the complexity (time/space) of your solution. If the solution is not optimal, it's better to refine the solution to make it faster or consume less memory. There are also system design questions that ask you to design a specific product or feature from scratch. It's not necessary to cover all details but the basic structure should be clear. You'll spend a lot of time discussing pros/cons with the interviewer and explore better ways to optimize the whole system. It's hard to describe what kind of questions are asked without giving you any example. I would highly suggest you to check the following resources or do some google search to prepare your interview: Glassdoor – Get Hired. Love Your Job. This site allows you to access questions from past candidates for a particular company. As I said above, you can get questions asked by Facebook last month for example. Programming Interview Questions | CareerCup . I use this site similar to Glassdoor. The most valuable part to me is again real questions from my targeted company. http://www.leetcode.com . This is one of the  most popular sites for preparing code interview. It has a lot of interesting questions and you code will be tested online. Gainlo - Mock Interview . You will get mock interview from people working at Google, Facebook etc. and get real feedbacks. The most valuable part to me is getting real feedback about my disadvantages and how I can improve. topcoder . This would be an optional resource for most people. Previously I only used this site for fun. It is one of the most popular online coding contest platform. Questions are usually much harder than those in real interview. But you're gonna have a lot of fun for sure. Cracking the Coding Interview: Gayle Laakmann McDowell I'll second this book one more time here. Since it gives you a lot of basic knowledge of how to prepare code interview. 