Does Facebook know my password?
Jaap Weel gave a pretty good (non-technical) answer. What I will add is this -- there's absolutely no way to know for sure if any particular private company is using "good" security practices to store/treat user passwords. The only way to know for sure is to see Facebook's source code, which they will not reveal by obvious reasons. Other than that, we can use indirect methods to make our "best guess." (Note that this is not the case with the Open-source software, but that's another subject.) What I will share with you is my approach to judging a site's security using the following: After you've created an account, log out and go back to the log-in page. Then use their link that says, "I forgot my password" and see what happens next. There'll be one of the following scenarios that will let you judge the security of the site: WORST: If you get an email with your password shown to you just as you typed it when you were signing up -- run away from that site! This means that they know nothing about security of storing user passwords. BAD: If you get an email with a new password that you did not set up, which is still shown to you in a plain text in an email. This is marginally better, but is still pretty bad. Any site that sends users their passwords in an email has a serious issue with password security. If you want to remain a member, make sure to go back and change your password to something that you will not and have never used on any other site. (See the bottom of this answer, for suggestions on how to do that.) GOOD: If you get an email with a link that contains a long key at the end of the URL for you to click on to reset your password, something like site-dot-com/resetpassword?uid=927CAA24D02444709291D07523FB698E. This is how it should be done right. Copy that link to the address bar of your web browser and proceed to the next step. (The important thing to note here is that you should use that link ONLY if you requested to reset your password at that site! In other words, if you simply got such an email without asking for your password to be reset, delete it immediately, or report it as a Phishing scam!) When you get redirected to the web site where you're re-setting your password at, just be sure to check that the address bar in the web browser actually shows facebook . com or whatever the site domain name actually is, before proceeding. Here's an example: Then read the new password rules that are usually provided on that same page. If not, just try the following scenarios: GOOD: If they don't let you specify a very short password. That is good! Usually 6 to 8 characters would be an absolute minimum requirement. GOOD: If they make you pick a password with at least one number and/or a capital letter. That is good! (I know it's a pain in the neck to type into mobile devices, but, you know, security and convenience are two opposite things. Read below for my suggestions on how to manage passwords.) NOT GOOD: On the other hand, if the site says, "your password cannot be longer than N characters," that is not an absolute worst sign (like the ones I gave at the beginning) but is still not good. Ideally the site should let you provide however long passwords you may wish to come up with (on the upper limit.) In other words, they should not allow a three-letter password, but they should encourage it to be as long as possible. (From the technical perspective of hashing passwords, there is no reason to limit a user's password in length.) NOT GOOD: Also if the site tells you that you can't use certain symbols in a password (for instance, "use letters and numbers, but not quotes or dollar sign") -- that is also bad. As I said above, there's no reason for them to impose that limitation, unless they do not follow the current security guidelines, or use an outdated hashing algorithm.So, the bottom line, if your site passes all the checks above, they probably know what they are doing. Also if the site provides means for the Two factor authentication it is only a plus, and I would certainly take them up on it and set it up for your account. This is especially easy if you have a smartphone and the site allows to use the Google Authenticator app. And lastly, as much as I am not a fan of Facebook, last time I checked, Facebook passed all of my criteria above. So I will venture to say that they may be doing it right. PS. At the end, let me recommend how one can manage their passwords securely. It's actually pretty easy. You will need a password manager. I personally prefer LastPass, which is just $1/mo. but it can also be free if you're OK with seeing their ads. So please take advantage of a secure solution for setting up and storing your passwords! Updated 31w ago • View Upvotes