Is there a common-placing method modern scholars use?
It should be appreciated that commonplace books are simply scrapbooks for compiling and storing information. People have been doing this for ages. They're simply raw notes. (via Printerest) Frankly, there's no system to it -- or, at least, the 'system' depends on the individual's general working habits. Most usually, commonbooks are organised by year -- and this is the method I use myself. People who keep commonbooks usually have good enough memory to know where they've put their stuff in the books. (via The Notebook as Database: John Locke, Commonplacing, and Hash Functions) The method referenced in the question is written about by Richard Reginald Yeo in his chapter "John Locke's 'New Method' of Commonplacing: Managing Memory and Information" in John Locke: Critical Assessments of Leading Political Philosophers, Series II (edited by Peter Antsey) (London: Routledge, 2006, pp. 243-280). I've not read that so I can't comment on Locke's New Method. From what I understand (as a keeper of commonplace books) is this:- It's a key method for recording and ordering information, quotations or anything else that's significant to the person for easy use later. The problem facing the person up to (and since) the time of Locke's method boils down to deciding how much space (pages) should be assigned to each subject heading. Locke's method was to assign a couple of pages in the front of each book to serve as an index. (via whsmith.co.uk) To be perfectly honest, it takes an effort of will for me to see how that method is anything 'new' or revolutionary. Front-end indexing had been in practice in bookkeeping long before Locke's time -- a legacy that we can still see in duplicate books buyable from any stationery shop in the UK. (via shutterstock) But it's all moot now. The problem of deciding how many pages to assign was basically solved by another age-old practice -- looseleaf format. In the old days, loose leaves were gathered up, ordered and bound together with string or brass binding posts -- until the ringbinder came along to supersede those. Linnaeus's 3x5in. index cards (via Joho the Blog) In my opinion, a much more revolutionary way of recording and organising information was the index card, invented by Carl Linnaeus. But that's another story for another day. Thanks for the A2A. 