Is there a common-placing method modern scholars use?
As it happens, many people in the modern world keep Commonplace book.  For instance, Bill Gates keeps one, Ronald Reagan kept a collection of note card quotes for his commonplace book and you can actually Google "Commonplace book examples" of other people who have kept one in the past. I personally keep one and it has absolutely revolutionized my writing and my intellectual life.  I keep my notes, commentary, quotes and other factoids that I've always wanted to remember in one place.  Whenever I need a fact, a quote or a story idea, I review my commonplace book and my note cards to essentially "source" my material since I record where I got the information in the first place. The "modern method" has been written extensively by the author Ryan Holiday.  There are a few articles of how he does the commonplace book: @I'm Ryan Holiday, and This Is How I Work Ryan gets really into describing how he developed his commonplace book setup in this article: How And Why To Keep A “Commonplace Book” - RyanHoliday.net And finally this article is a response from people who have themselves used commonplace books and their methods: Everyone Should Keep A Commonplace Book: Great Tips From People Who Do Some people like to use 3x5 or 4x6 Index Cards or Evernote.  Some use regular notebooks or moleskin.  I personally try to avoid technology with the commonplace book and use a combination of a notebook/note card system that I'm ironing out the kinks in.  A commonplace book is one of the greatest productivity hacks on the planet in my humble opinion.  People who maintain commonplace books become very passionate about them because they become a tome of thoughts/quotes/anecdotes/insights that have incredibly deep meaning and allows them to meld their thoughts with genius.  It doesn't matter the original source of the material or what the material is.  It could be a quote, passage, idea, anecdote, question, article topic, whatever you find interesting goes into the commonplace book. Full disclosure: answering this question caused me to get out my commonplace notebook and write down the article topic of "Creating and maintaining a commonplace notebook for Authors."  See how powerful (and useful) this can be? I hope this question has caused you to consider making your own commonplace book.  It's an insight into another world and more than anything else...it's fun! It's 100% your own material that YOU love and enjoy. YOU also get to maintain the system which holds your commonplace material together.  It's all about you and melding your insights with whatever inspires you, and it's a very powerful feeling. Good luck with starting your own Commonplace book and keep us updated on what you do and how it works for you! 