Could God prove his existence and how?
God (the creator of this universe) can use mathematics to prove its existence and also the authenticity of its messages through one-way functions. The idea is based on God embedding a message in the  Physical constants of the universe. Since God created this universe and selected the constants, it can put any message in these constants at least in their insignificant digits. Per definition, alien civilizations should not be able to alter these constants making them a perfect way to differentiate between God (the creator) and advanced aliens. Here is a practical implementation of this idea. God would create a book (like the Qur’an or the Bible), that contains a Public-key, embed the Public key fingerprint (the hash value calculated through a Cryptographic hash function of the book which is for this purpose a Public key certificate) in the Physical constants of the universe (like the Speed of light in vacuum or the ratio of the Strong force to the Weak force) and then reveal the book (the certificate) when advanced civilizations like us start wondering about this and then use the public key to digitally sign the messages to communicate with us and prove that the author of the messages is the God (Authentication) that created the universe and not created or altered by an advanced alien civilization (integrity). This assumes (among many other things) P != Np (P versus NP problem) and that One-way functions exists and NTMs (Non-deterministic Turing machine) do not. Also, there are many definitions of God. This one can only be used by the designer and the creator of the universe, not by the maintainer if they are different Gods unless that God is powerful enough to change the universal and physical constants after the universe is created. Here is a more detailed explanation for the past/future Gods 1. Before creating the universe, create a language (Arabic or Hebrew works but I would have chosen a more symbolic language) 2. Create a book (like the Qur’an or the Bible). In that book, tell us that you exist and you embedded the proof in the universal constants of the universe. Then tell us about the Universal constants in the universe and optionally how we can observe and calculate them. Then tell us which universal constants you used to embed the fingerprint (hash) Public key fingerprint. This step is important because at this moment, we think there are at least 28 universal constants. Without this step, that's a lot of combinations to try. The universal constants you select, for simplicity, should be dimensionless or tells us how we can make them dimensionless (like dividing one to another) if they have (See Natural units). Also, tell us how the the hash will be divided and embedded in the universal constants (like telling us you will embed 40-50th digits of the hash in the 10-20th digits of Speed of light ) Also explain which hash function will be used and a proof that it is one way, which includes proving P != NP (complexity classes P and NP are not equal) and including proof that NTMs cant reverse it or NTMs (nondeterministic touring machines) do not exist. 3. (Optional) Create a Public/Private key pair and tell us the public key. Do not disclose the private key in the book. Describe the algorithm and prove that it is not weak. This step is necessary if you wish to communicate with us later and not if you just to prove your existence. 4. Calculate the hash of the book using the one way function described. The hash should at least few thousand bits such that even if every atom in the universe (10^80) can be used as a calculator operating at Planck frequency (10^-45), a powerful alien cannot create a new text with the same hash within the age of the universe (10^10 years) (including Birthday attacks) 5. While creating the Universe, divide the hash and embed the hash in the insignificant digits of universal constants as described in the book. 6. Send the book (a translation would be really helpful if it is not in English, Arabic or Hebrew etc.) using a messenger (like a prophet) or any other means like a response in Quora. 7. (Optional) Then when communicating, sign the messages with the private key which was not disclosed to us. This would prove (mathematically) that the God exists and sent the book. However, 1) It wont prove that the other messages in the book (like how we should treat each other) are what they mean. A powerful alien, that knows the existence of the book, could have shaped the language we use to mean something else (like changing the meaning of "beat" in Arabic to "love") before the book is revealed so that it is not anymore what God meant in the book. 2) This wont prove that multiple gods do not exist (like creator being different from the designer). If universes were like Ikea furniture, we can have the God in Sweden who designs it, the guy in China who makes it, the local Ikea who sells it, the guy who assembles it at home and the one who maintains/cleans it later. 3) I also believe that we currently live in a second hand universe (the one that got built and then got sold to a third party) and there are many many universes (if you have the power of creating a universe, why create just one?). So this proof is pretty much meaningless except resolving all these questions whether a God exists and the one you communicate with is one of them. 4) This also does not prevent Man-in-the-middle attacks. 5) This also needs a Public key infrastructure solution if there are many gods and universes which complicates the book and still doable even with our current understanding. Edit1: Added links to wikipedia for various terms Edit2: More links and fixed some typos Edit3: Made the communication part optional. Edit4: Emphasized the relationship between Math and the Physical constants. Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes