Is cryptography an art or a science?
Thanks for the A2A, Vidyadutt Kamarajugadda.  I am quite passionate about this area, and so please bear with me if my answer is too long for your taste. First of all, I would like to state that the premise of the question seems to assume that since cryptography is primarily mathematics-based, it should be a derivative of the debate regarding whether or not maths is an art or a science. Mathematics is not science. It may be called an art, but of course not in the very conventional and culturally accepted sense of the term. It is not a science, as Feynman put it, because experiment is not the proof of its validity. That is a very basic and essential premise for science - observation, hypothesis and experimental verification are the three building blocks for science. Mathematics does not follow this particular structure; it does not study nature directly. Mathematics is a tool for science to progress. In itself, it is something very beautiful, but that discussion is for another time. Having said that, let us break another myth: "Modern" crypto is definitely not "100% math based" as the question claims. True, the design of algorithms, especially in the public-key domain, relies on the hardness or difficulty of some mathematical problems (for example. integer factorization or the discrete logarithm problem). However, cryptography is more than just design: in fact, it is more about breaking these systems to evolve new ones (technically, that is cryptanalysis and cryptography is design - together they form cryptology). And cryptanalysis is by no means a totally mathematics based area any more. For example, to break the security of a Smart Card or an RFID device, we often employ techniques called "side-channel attacks". We may study the sound produced while running an algorithm to break its key! We may study even the power consumption while running a crypto algorithm and break it. In fact, the crypto being used today is dangerously based on mathematical hardness, and this will change soon with the advent of quantum computing and quantum information systems or post-quantum cryptology. There are very few present systems that are resistant to quantum attacks (an example is the McEliece type of cryptosystem). Coming back now, to the actual question: Yes, cryptology is science. The security of a system is not a theoretical property any more. The notion of perfect security does not exist today. What we need is a system that may have a known weakness, but there must exist no efficient algorithm to break it. Whenever a new system is proposed, the main work for cryptologists all over the world is to repeatedly try out new attacks and try to break it. The moment they find such an attack, the system is proven to be insecure.  The attack must be efficeint - for example, if you run a code for 600,000 years, it will break the SHA-family hashes with probability 1,  but such an attack is useless. Till then, the system may be assumed to be reasonably secure against present known attacks, and not perfectly secure. The evolution of crypto is based on this idea, and experimentation and innovation (with respect to both design, analysis and further design) is the way forward. It is definitely a science then - at least in the way Feynman sees it. But then, think about the sheer delight that crypto can bring you at times: I particularly remember a seminal research paper by Xiaoyun Wang, where she broke the MD4 hash function using a brilliant concept of bit rotations, that was really simple in terms of the technical idea, but the adjective appropriate for it is 'wonderful'.  Without going into the technical details, I will give you a very important problem of cloud security: Suppose you run a hospital, and you want to analyse some of the data. You intend to use the cloud resources for this. But then, the patients' records are confidential - you cannot possibly disclose them. So, the problem reduces to this: how can you compute on some data without revealing the actual content?! This problem, even for the layman, is thrilling. If you go on studying these ideas, you will soon reach impossibly deep philosophical implications. For starters, just consider the notions of secrecy, perfection, perfect security (or the lack thereof). If you let your thoughts wander, they will reach wonderful new planes. What more do we ask from a piece of art, than that moment of intense passion and realization, when you get lost in another world. In that sense, cryptography has millions of those moments, where you stand back and appreciate the brilliance of ideas. It is definitely an art. I am sorry, then, reader, if you expected a choice: but for me, cryptography is both art and science. In fact, for me, at some level, science is an art, it has a very deep underlying philosophy that helps you explain the universe. Mathematics is the tool to reduce that realization into a computable form. But even more than that, above this debate of whether cryptography is an art or a science, there is something more important. If you have studied it properly, had fun along the way, experienced the bamboozling equations and hacked into a metro smart card just for gags, you will know this: Cryptography is beautiful. 