★Was Russia involved in the White House computer network hack?
This answer contains a lot of facts. So it may be a bit long. Instead of writing the whole information, I have tried to provide an extract of the actual reports and then I am also providing the links of the actual reports I went through. So do visit them. Cyber attacks have become more prominent in past decade or so. Almost every country is spying its allies and enemies. We know that US has a habit of showing itself as a leader of the world. We also know what it is capable of (take the case of IRAQ for instance). So no other country would dare to do such an act with US. It’s always a lion that fights a lion. And currently, either China or Russia is capable of conducting such cyber attacks. So why only Russia's name has been tossed when Executive Office of the President at White House was attacked?? Maybe there is no proof till now that the cyber attack on White House was operated by Russia, we cannot forget that the relations betwen the two countries have never been good. The fact that Russia and the US are the two supergiants in terms of power, there is always a tendency amongst them to show who is the supreme. The cyber attacks can be seen as an extension of the "cold war". Since both the countries have unmatchable defence power and a whole stock of nuclear weapons, it is clear that none of them will want to face off each other directly. The only tactic they now find is similar to what we call "sledging" in cricket. They find it better to provoke each other. For instance- " More than two dozen Russian aircraft, including four Tu-95 strategic bombers, flew through the Baltic and Black Seas, along the coast of Norway and all the way to Portugal, staying over international waters but prompting NATO forces to send up intercepting aircraft." -http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/3...  Instead of direct attack, both of them have shifted their war to a new world-                           "The Cyber World" The fact that US itself spys the whole world is no more hidden. There are servers in India as well that act as data sinks and send all the information to US making no data private anymore. "One year ago, Edward Snowden released data revealing that the U.S. National Security Agency had spied on the Indian embassy in Washington and its mission to the United Nations. The NSA has been conducting mass surveillance and collecting data worldwide and India was the fifth most-tracked country; 6.3 billion pieces of intelligence were gathered from India." -http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealti... Also, we should admit that recently there have been a few issues that have fired the two nations once again. When the malaysian airplane MH17 crashed near Ukraine-Russia border, US strongly protested against Russia and blamed it for the crash even though there is still no evidence in my knowledge that Russia was responsible for such a humiliating act. But the fact that another airplane of Air India- AI113 that was just 25km away from the malaysian airplane was able to listen the instructions of Ukraine ATC which commanded MH17 to change its direction of flight proves that Ukraine knew that the plane was going to be attacked and the air route over the border was no more safe. "According to Pravda News (pravdanews.info) just before the collapse of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17, an Air India Dreamliner enroute Birmingham from New Delhi heard the Ukraine ATC ask MH17 to change route." -http://www.dnaindia.com/world/re... Furthermore, there have been evidences that Russia has been active in cyber attacks. "Last year, security researchers at several American cybersecurity companies uncovered a Russian cyberespionage campaign, in which Russian hackers were systematically hacking more than one thousand Western oil and gas computers, and energy investment firms. The first motive, given Moscow’s dependence on its oil and gas industry, was likely industrial espionage. But the manner in which hackers were choosing their targets also seemed intended to seize control of industrial control systems remotely, in much the same way the United States and Israel were able to take control of the Iranian nuclear facility at Natanz when it attacked its computer systems with malware through the summer of 2010, disabling a fifth of Iran’s centrifuges at the time" -http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/3... "Russian hackers — those working for the government and those engaged in “patriotic hacking” — are considered particularly stealthy. In several cases, security researchers have found evidence that hackers were probing the very core of victims’ machines, the part of the computer known as the BIOS, or basic input output system. Unlike software, which can be patched or updated, once the BIOS of a machine is infected with malware, it often renders the machine unusable." -http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/3... " A hacker group believed to be sponsored by the Russian government has attacked governments in Georgia, the Caucasus and eastern Europe, as well as Nato and defence contractors across the west of Europe. The so-called APT28 group has been sending targets emails offering information of interest relevant to the recipient, while registering websites that mimic legitimate news and current events sites. Such “phishing” sites can either be used to trick victims into handing over data, such as usernames and passwords, or to thrust malware onto the visitor’s PC, phone or tablet. APT28’s malware settings suggest that the developers have done the majority of their work in a Russian language build environment during Russian business hours, which suggests that the Russian government is APT28’s sponsor." -http://www.theguardian.com/techn... "US officials are far more concerned than they are publicly acknowledging about the gigantic cyberattack against JPMorgan that affected as many as 76 million households. And they believe Russians with at least loose connections to the country's government are behind the attack, according to a new report from The New York Times." -http://www.businessinsider.in/RE... Considering the above instances, it is obvious that US would suspect Russia for the cyber attacks. Although one may feel that China maybe involved in the attacks. But the sophistication of Russia’s cyberespionage campaigns, differ somewhat from China’s. The Chinese attacks like those led by Unit 61398 of the People’s Liberation Army, whose members were indicted earlier this year by the Justice Department are aimed chiefly at intellectual property theft. The Russians do a bit of that, too, but the attacks also suggest more disruptive motives. "Our computers and systems have not been damaged, though some elements of the unclassified network have been affected" -http://www.huffingtonpost.com/20... The sustained attack lasted days and indicates that the attack was of significant strength. US is facing complications in backtracking the actual position from where the attacks were made. So because there is no proof, and even the US  officials are reluctant to give name, I believe Russia tops the list of suspects. #RUSSIA- "It wasn't me who wrote this. Maybe my lappy is hacked"  XD  :p