★What are some good jokes about computer networks?
Chuck Norris 911 is Chuck Norris’ cell phone number. Chuck Norris doesn’t do TCP handshake – he does TCP roundhouse-kick to initiate the connection. Chuck Norris can strangle you with a cordless phone. Chuck Norris is able to answer missed call before it is missed. Chuck Norris can cut cable from WiFi. Chuck Norris doesn’t use pickup lines, he simply says, “Now.” The world is moving from IPv4 and going straight to IPv6 because Chuck Norris doesn’t like the number 5! There are no hidden IOS commands. Only those Chuck Norris chooses not to look at! Cisco implemented the “test crash” hidden IOS command because it was otherwise impossible to break a router that Chuck Norris had worked on! Metric in RIP represents distance between router and Chuck Norris. Lower the distance is, Chuck is closer to punch your packet and send it to grave. Every VPN is an EasyVPN for Chuck Norris! Chuck Norris slayed the Kerberos daemon. Chuck Norris ran track in high school and always won the 100 meter frame relay! DHCP DHCP jokes are leased. A DHCP packet walks into a bar and asks for a beer. Bartender says: “here, but I’ll need that back in an hour! I’m a DHCP server at a local restaurant. This chick came up and asked me for my address, and I told her she was out of my scope. DNS The best thing about DNSSEC jokes is that you can check if they were told wrong. DNS is the root of all problems. You know it’s love when you memorize her IP number to skip DNS overhead. WHOIS going to tell us a Domain Name joke? A forged DNS packet tells the barman: “Need a root?” The next day, no-one can find the bar… Ethernet I had an Ethernet joke, but somebody else told it at the same time. So I exponentially backed off and tried again. {1,Two guys}{2,Hear about}{1,are talking}{2,the dope}{1,in}{2,who confused}{1.full-duplex,}{2,TDM with full-duplex?} LAN jokes can only be told properly if you tell an STP joke first. You have to tell a broadcast joke to everybody to find the one who see the fun on it. Broadcast your own ARP jokes, mine are only funny within the same collision domain. ARP jokes are often gratuitous. An ARP request goes to McDonald’s and asks for a Big MAC. I like ARP jokes, because it’s so easy to make them appear to originate from other persons. How do you catch an Ether bunny? With an Ethernet. I once went to an ARP restaurant. Thank god I didn’t eat the food! It was poisoned… The worst thing about broadcast storm jokes is that everyone’s already heard them a hundred times. What does networking seal say? Arp! Arp! Arp! A broadcast walks into the bar, everyone stops what they are doing to look… am i the only girl on here or what ?! HTTP The best thing about 404 jokes is… wait, damnit, it’s around here somewhere… There’s no more 301 jokes because they have all been moved permanently. HTTP 200 jokes are only OK. The truth is out there. Anybody got the URL? What kind of doctor fixes broken websites? A URLologist. IPv4 An IPv4 address walks into a bar and says: “Quick, give me a drink. I am exhausted!” The worst thing about protocol jokes is the ridiculous TTL. I’d tell you the one about the CIDR block, but you’re too classy. Didn’t we run out of IPv4 jokes? After dropping the packet the IP said it was my best effort. RFC1918 jokes are inside jokes. IP packet with TTL=1 arrives at bar. Bartender: “Sorry, can’t let you leave… and you don’t get any beer either…” Router: It hurts when IP. Network pray: Dear Lord, Please grant me the ability to punch people in the face over standard TCP/IP. We need to find more space for the IPv4 Comedy Roadshow, since all seats are taken. There’s no place like 127.0.0.1. I have told IPv4 joke 254 times. Then it stopped being funny. I have told IPv4 joke to my friend. He checked checksum and had best effort laugh. I have tried to tell you IPv4 joke, but you were unreachable.... (more)Loading...