★What are some interesting facts about computer networking?
We haven't actually run out of IPv4 addresses, its just that when the internet was founded, we gave huge blocks to organizations that still hold the equivalent of millions of public addresses. CCAr certification is possibly one of the most prestigious in the world. It requires presenting 10+ years of experience on a resume, 3750 dollars to even be considered, 11,250 dollars to take the exam (not counting the plane flight), and a CCDE (Cisco Certified Design Expert, ony 60 own this certification). You are tested by a live board of Distinguished Engineers and other CCAr engineers. There are only 9 of these in the world. A switch and a hub isn't the same thing, don't let Best Buy tell you otherwise. Switch > hub. At peak capacity, Netflix uses 1/3 of all Internet traffic in North America. By accessing any website, a stream of information must bounce between anywhere from 3 to dozens of other routers on the internet, all run by ISPs and interconnected. A response is then sent back accross this same path to reach your computer again, and then transfer begins. This happens in a fraction of a second. For some reason, a lot of people who like networking shy away from programming, and vice versa. (There are exceptions of course!) Cisco runs an van called the NERV. It is deployed in sites where there has been a natural disaster and is used to obtain internet and communications in the area. It was deployed in Haiti and helped news crews and VIPs communicate and help restore some order. They have VoIP (Voice over IP) phones, fax machines, a 20mb satellite link, and enough equipment for any situation. The first message sent over the internet was "LOG". "LOGIN" was the original intended message but the entire system crashed. This was done at MIT. Vint Cerf, one of the "founding fathers" of the internet and one of the founders of TCP/IP, wrote a poem to lament the end of ARPANET, called "Requiem of the ARPANET": "It was the first, and being first, was best, but now we lay it down to ever rest. Now pause with me a moment, shed some tears. For auld lang syne, for love, for years and years of faithful service, duty done, I weep. Lay down thy packet, now, O friend, and sleep." -Vint Cerf To go on a little rant, not very many people realize how much work has gone into the internet. 40 years of protocols built ontop of each other, countless governments and organizations, billions of packets flying across a "series of tubes" and dozens of protocols, just so you can look at a picture of a cat.