★What are some interesting facts about computer networking?
The interesting fact about computer networking:                        IT WORKS Seriously, this amazes me every day. Before we get into that, allow me to correct a some of the info posted by Dominic Suares. Most of it was close to correct, but slightly wrong. For instance, the first two letters on the Internet were "LO", not LOG before the Sigma 7 crashed. That is interesting. But more interesting, it was done at UCLA, not MIT: UCLA to open Internet history museum on Saturday Page on ucla.edu [Don't diss UCLA to a UCLA alum! :-] Which leads to another interesting fact: The Internet was invented at UCLA, a public school, with public money. I'm as hard a capitalist as anyone, but if you try to claim the gov't never does anything right or well on the Internet, I just laugh at you. For certification, I don't know why that is terribly interesting. But even assuming certs were interesting, most people do not know what CCAr is. I got my CCIE probably before many reading this were born, yet I had never heard of it. Hard to believe it is "the most prestigious" when no one knows what it is. But not surprising an intern at the company giving out the certification (for cash) believes that company's certification is important. Here's an interesting fact that needs to be corrected from above: The forward & reverse path for packets on the Internet are not even slightly related. Saying "A response is then sent back accross [sic] this same path" is misleading at best. Routers (in an IP network, which is essentially all computer networks these days) are hop-by-hop and carry no state. This is why you can get a routing loop. Check out this diagram: When a packets goes from Hearts to Clubs and back, the second time Hearts sees the packet, it thinks this is a Brand New Packet, never seen before (other than about 0.01 ms ago). And it will continue to forward the packet to Clubs again and again, not realizing it is doing the same thing expecting a different result. I guess you could say computer networking is "insane". :-) Yet it works. Then there is the blazing speed of computer networking. Think about this for a second.... During that second, the smallest link on what most people would consider a "major backbone" had a laser blink on and off ten billion times! And large backbones in major countries (US, UK, western Europe, Japan, Korea, etc.) have individual links which blink on & off one hundred billion times in a single second. The largest of those backbones combine several of those links together. The equipment which fires a laser 10,000,000,000 (edit, that originally had "10,000,000") times a second is tiny: And that is just from point A to point B. Those points might be a few inches away, or seven thousand miles apart (e.g. across the pacific ocean). Now let's get into some Internet-specific facts. There are nearly 50,000 (fifty thousand!) individual networks currently active on the Internet: CIDR Report [Look at the "AS summary"] They are almost all independent private companies. Yet somehow they all manage to not only get packets from point A to point B, but they do it over and over. If someone changes a piece of the internet in, say, San Francisco California, 90+% of the Internet will understand that change in under 90 seconds. It's un-frickin'-believable. But it works. So the most interesting thing about computer networking:                        IT WORKS