★What's a packet in a computer network?
A packet is a term generally only used in computer networking as a conceptual term. It refers to a bundle of data sent from computer A to computer Z over some sort of packet-switching/packet-routing network. Now, the way this conceptual term is applied in real life is similar to what the first responder stated. The OSI model defines a suite of protocols that takes a conceptual packet and separates it into multiple "layers" of a "stack". Modern networks don't strictly follow the OSI model, but it is still a useful model of how data is processed on a network. Typically, a modern network uses the TCP/IP protocol stack, which is generally transported over some Ethernet derived physical network. The way TCP/IP works in general starts with your computer's TCP/IP stack receiving information from a software application which it will then encapsulate within one or more TCP segments. TCP will assign source and destination port numbers, fragment the data into multiple segments sized for efficient transport over your network, and perform a variety of other functions. Then, TCP will hand its segments (the sum of which include the entirety of the original message sent by the original application) up to IP who will encapsulate the TCP segments into multiple IP datagrams (typically one per segment), add source and destination IP addresses, as well as QoS parameters. Finally, IP will hand its datagrams up to the Operating System who will use its routing table to pass the datagram to over to a NIC (Network Interface Card), who will then generally encapsulate the IP datagram into an Ethernet frame and then place the frame on the physical wire attached to the NIC as a series of binary signals. Notice the various terms used; segment, datagram and frame. These terms are often mislabelled as packets. While they are responsible for implementing a packet network, non of them (including the summation of them) is technically a packet. Two other items for completeness: First; TCP is called a transport protocol, and it is not the only one out there. The IP protocol freely works with UDP, SCTP and other transport protocols as well. The transport protocol used typically depends on the type of traffic you are sending and whether you care more about low latency/throughout, or reliability. Second; IP is generally further defined as either IPv4, or IPv6, with IPv6 being the latest revision of the protocol which is poised to eventually replace IPv4.