★Skyfall (2012 movie): Why would Q attach the computer of a known cyberterrorist to the MI6 computer network?Is he the worst digital forensics investigator in history?
Cliff Giley has got the answer, but only half-way. Q expected the network to be secure, that's true. Silva had been hacking Mi6 for months with the same laptop, so Q should have known the laptop was a threat. However, Q did not believe that Silva had planned an escape. When he asked "Why are all the doors opening?" it showed he had been thinking about the computer, not about Silva's plans. Silva on the other hand had been thinking about how Q would handle the laptop for months, planning for the day that Q would trigger the doors to open. The old office that was attacked had  been hacked by Silva, and therefore it was insecure. When they moved to the new MI6 headquarters, they had rebuilt their entire network and assumed it was now secure. When Bond was handcuffed to a chair, Silva proved to Bond that the new Mi6 network was still very insecure. Silva could see Bond's test scores! Silva had access to everything. Then they arrested Silva, and Q began looked for the backdoors he was using to hack the network, but Silva's computer had already been hacking Mi6 for months. However, Silva had planted the bomb at the old headquarters, knowing M was not in her office, and he wanted them to move to the new location that was less secure and easier for him to infiltrate and escape. When Q plugged Silva's computer into the network, it may have been just his mistake plugging into the wrong port, but you have to think bigger than that. Silva planted his controls on the network long ago, and the laptop computer was just a trigger device. The map of London's underground was simply a decoy to keep Q busy. You see Silva knew Q would be focused on the program that was interesting and changing and playing games, meanwhile the real program would be running and trying to hack the network and trigger the doors to open. Put simply Q's confidence and arrogance and focus on the single interesting computer program was his failure.