When should I begin competitive programming and is it possible for a beginner?
As you said you have already started C++ and you are feeling comfortable with it, then start doing competitive programs. In competitive programs also there are 3 levels - Easy, Medium and Hard. Programming is all about problem solving. When i was in first year i din't even know what Programming is. Then in second semester C was included in syllabus. When i wrote Hello World Program and some basic programs i thought that Programming is child's play. But in my third sem. i came to know about codechef. I started solving easy problems and then i realized that i don't know anything about Programming. I mean i can't even solve those problems which were marked easy on codechef. And then i realized that in college there are only 12 - 15 Programs which are given to students. We mug up those programs, mug up theory and we are done. Got full marks and we are programmer. But after that i made a whole new scenerio. I started with Hello World Program again(I know it's Lame But i was really depressed), and solved problems in a manner, I mean first i solved problems on data types from easy to hard level, then Arrays, Strings, OOP(classes, inheritance etc.) etc. Meanwhile i kept solving the questions on codechef, hackerrank etc. also. Then i started with data structures. And it din't took that much time in learning data structures. So i have completely followed a road map. I don't want you to follow this, i was just telling that if you want to do competitive Programming just try solving Problems online. Participate in hackathons, and if you dont found yourself comfortable then don't give up. Just relax and make a Road map your own and start solving. And as you said not to provide Links. I am not providing any links here. But just an advice if you start solving Problems online than you should start with HackerRank. They have a good collection of Practice codes and diff difficulty level problems. Try to participate in competitions and hackathons. All the best. Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes