What are the most successful pharmaceutical drugs of biological origin?
Many of the anti-cancer drugs that are used in clinical medicine are of natural origin. They include   1. Vinblastine and vincristine, vinca alkaloids, extracted from the periwinkle plant. They act as mitotic spindle poi­sons, which impair chromosomal segregation during mitosis. Microtubules are essential for normal cellular function and are involved in the maintenance of cell shape, mobility, adhe­sion and intracellular integrity, as well as having a role in the formation of the mitotic spindle during proliferation. Vinblastine is active in haematological cancers and in testicular and breast cancer. Vincristine is also active in these tumours, in addition to Wilm’s tumour, Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, hepatoblastoma and embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.   2. Topotecan and irinotcan (camptothecin derivatives). These natural alkaloids are isolated from the bark and stem of Camptotheca acuminata (Camptotheca, Happy tree), a tree native to China used as a cancer treatment in traditional Chinese medicine. The drugs prevent DNA from unwinding, and thus from replicating, by inhibition of topoisomerase 1. This leads to cell death. Main use is to treat colon cancer.   3. Etoposide derived from podophyllotoxin, a toxin found in the American Mayapple. Etoposide forms a ternary complex with DNA and the topoisomerase II enzyme (which aids in DNA unwinding), prevents re-ligation of the DNA strands, and by doing so causes DNA strands to break. Cancer cells rely on this enzyme more than healthy cells, since they divide more rapidly. Therefore, this causes errors in DNA synthesis and promotes apoptosis of the cancer cell   4. Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a chemically complex molecule, a taxane, first isol­ated from the bark of the Pacific Yew treeTaxus brevifolia in the early 1970s. Fungi in the bark synthesize paclitaxel. Paclitaxel interferes with cell division by manipulating the molecular regulation of the cell cycle. In the presence of paclitaxel, polymerization of subunits of tubulin occurs, and the formed microtubules resist dis­assembly, thus shifting the equilibrium towards micro-tubule formation. Paclitaxel is now used to treat patients with lung, ovarian, breast, head and neck cancer, and advanced forms of Kaposi's sarcoma. 