What are different ways I can enhance my knowledge, skills, build my personality (1st year at MAIT), so I can secure a good job. What are some books and coding competitions that can help me in building my skills?
Looks like I am somewhat late to the party, anyway here are my 2 cents: Fair warning: These tips may apply only for people who are looking for a career or more in computer science after their graduation.. i.e. not MBA or MS folks 1. Don't study for exams, its just not worth it. Get an Akash or any other question set on the last week from your first sessional, look at the questions and figure out the answers (answers in those reference materials are usually are of bad quality, if not incorrect) . This is probably all you gonna need to score 75+ in IPU. You can spend your productive time in doing more awesome things like creating project, trying to work on a startup or competitive programming or anything else you like rather than studying for exams. 2. Take practicals seriously. Study all the theory you need for them and implement each of those program yourself. It will be fun and you will start to take genuine interest in computer science. Although copy the whole file at the end anyway, again its not worth your productive time to do formatting in ms word, creating index, getting print outs, yada yada. 3. Get a very fast and stable internet connection. You are going to need it. 4. These are online lectures for ADA created by faculties of MIT themselves under MIT Open course ware campaign. They are boring but they are awesome. That knowledge will get you a long way ahead so don't miss out on watching them. 5. Don't waste your time in watching NPTDEL videos. Too slow (for my preference anyway). 6. Do competitive programming as much as you can and in as diverse domains as possible. This will teach you some really awesome stuff that you would not have know from academics. 7. Don't become a fan of any technology/language/platform and don't fixate on anything. Be a jack of all and master of none. Try to learn as much different stuff as you can, it will open up your mind. Explore the beauty of OSS ecosystem, powerful IDE's (and what makes them powerful). Learn Java, C#, Python, Ruby, Web Stack and whatever stuff you can get hands on. Also teach your friends what you know. 8. Learn Git and have a Github account and I cannot stress this enough. This will empower you to contribute to open source. Clone your favourite projects on to your local, build them and tweak them according to your necessities. Also create a PR if your tweak is good enough and can be helpful in general. 9. Build soft skills. Learn english grammer and composition. Talk to people. Get girlfriend/boyfriend. Try to talk to your friends in english. Give speeches. Start a literary club. Read fiction. Write mails. Even try to bull shit exam answers with proper context, narrative, grammer and formatting. 10. Either learn from teachers or ignore them completely. If you feel strongly against any faculty on their professional behaviour or their technical incompetency, then either complain it to HoD or accept the fact that you have to study that subject yourself and plan accordingly. 11. Do not be person who says "Jyada pad rha hai aaj kal"/"Tu to kar hi lega" or any other equivalent. 12. Respect other people and their choices. And don't judge anyone. Also have fun :) 