Do you have a non-repetitive, exclusive quote list?
Quotes A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools. - Douglas Adams A man goes out on the beach and sees that it is covered with starfish that have washed up in the tide. A little boy is walking along, picking them up and throwing them back into the water. "What are you doing, son?" the man asks. "You see how many starfish there are? You'll never make a difference." The boy paused thoughtfully, and picked up another starfish and threw it into the ocean. "It sure made a difference to that one," he said. Half the sky,pg. 45. I thought I had the dream life. I could take pictures of fish and travel the world. It was only when I saw what was happening to the sharks that I realized I couldn't just sit back and not care. At a certain point you have to take action.-rob stewart [on dealing with environmental decline] What we really need is education, because in every other crisis we've ever faced, once people knew the real situation they took the right moral action. This is what has to happen now, and I do believe it's possible. But it will be an act of revolution, because we don't just have to change the world, we have to change the way we think.-rob stewart If you sat kids down on day one at school and said, 'Guys, we've fucked up. We've burnt and consumed almost everything, and your future is really grim unless you pay attention, you learn what we've got to tell you, and you come out of this and you start doing something', kids would be getting 'A's. Kids would be studying because the future and their lives would depend on it.-rob Stewart  This isn’t the end. Not even close. We’ve lost entire cities. we still don’t know how it started. We bought ourselves some time .it’s given us a chance. Others have found a way to push back. If you can fight, fight. Help each The registration of your domain name is completed by Register.eu prepared for anything .our war has just begun.-Brad Pitt, World War Z "The sea, the great unifier, is man's only hope. Now, as never before, the old phrase has a literal meaning: We are all in the same boat."[citation needed]-Jacques Cousteau The train of human destruction might be steaming along, but if there is enough of us pulling in the opposite direction we can slow it down. The time for living unconsciously is over.- Lesley Rochet Everyone sucks at math, some just suck at it less than others- Me We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next ten. Don't let yourself be lulled into inaction.-Bill Gates There is no normal, just what you perceive as normal-me Your only as weird as you think you are-Garrett K.  People are like potatoes when you eat them they die- Madilyn V. Hashtags are for tall people-Lexi R. Roooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocks-Hannah M. Shut up your dead-Madilyn V. People are like French fries when you fry them up in hot oil they die.-Madilyn v. " Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive. "- Elbert Hubbard “This is High Marq, everyone is secretly a five year old”-me Without action, words are meaningless-me I have too much work to do to be dead-Lexi R. This is in a microsoft word document that im adding to but this is the current list i really should add some more of these to "Upvote For A Quote!....."  (= Credits) 