Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
There are some great answers here. I'll add my two pence: Your focus when learning physics should NOT be learning the steps of a derivation, or the formulae, or any associated complicated math. It should be on trying to understand the behavior of the underlying phenomena. That's easy to say, isn't it? What I think it means is this: 1. Visualize the phenomena ( a thought experiment/simulation) 2. Ask the same questions every time - How do I characterize the behavior of this system? AKA what is this system doing? (For mechanics - the kinematics of the system) What kind of interactions does this system encounter which can change its behavior? (Forces, torques etc.) How do I relate the interactions with the behavior of the system? (The grand laws of physics- Newton's et al) What assumptions do I need to make/ are made for the previous step? (THE MOST IMPORTANT QUESTION OF ALL)3. Check if your newly derived equations make sense. (Sanity checks) 4, Repeat. Re-analyse. The more you do this, the more "feeling" you get for the behavior of physical phenomena. I feel compelled to respond to your statement: "Shamefully I just completed a course in Oscillations and Waves 6 weeks ago and I scored 100% in theory. I feel immensely ashamed of myself." IMHO, learning Physics has nothing to do with marks or speed (at least not at the Grad school level). You are learning for yourself now. You've chosen to go to grad school NOT to get a certificate of merit or a degree (that'll just be a consequence). Or to pass an exam. You're there to figure out how the world works (really!),to use this knowledge to figure out how to logically approach new problems (the scientific method) and most importantly to develop your intuition. Please don't be hard on yourself or compare yourself to people who solve problems faster because they've mugged up a series of facts. That should not be your datum. I go by this: Don't believe other people, prove it for yourself. Stick to what you have proved believable. Don't be overawed by other more senior people. Don't ignore the feelings in your bones. — David P. Davies 