How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
1. What the F (Fahrenheit)?! :-/   Question in C programming class after many lectures:   Write a C program to convert degree Celsius to degree Fahrenheit. ( C'mn, you have no right to insult Dennis Ritchie. For these lame assignments, later I had hard time believing that UNIX was written entirely in the same language)   Question in JAVA programming class after 2-3 lectures:   Write a JAVA program to convert degree Celsius to degree Fahrenheit. (Curse you! The teacher forces you to make classes and objects for a unit conversion. :-| I knew something was terribly wrong when he had a smile on his face saying 'Welcome to OOP'!)     Question in BASH scripting class after the first lecture:   *** Just take a WILD GUESS *** x-(  [Hint: Just notice the change of pattern in the above questions... ;-) )   (Server-side automation looked Out of this World when I came to know about it! :-D)     2. Is this an English Grammar Class?   Asked to show the code for Bubble Sort in the Lab assignment copy, I proudly handed over the Modified Bubble Sort code optimized for already sorted list of numbers. The prof was least interest in the Time Complexity though, he spotted out a missing Semicolon in the code and started lecturing how silly mistakes like these is bad programming and how it won't even COMPILE.   I'm not sure whether you have to compile a C code at gunpoint in real life (you miss a semicolon and the compiler shouts out 'Enough is enough' and shoots you!).   I personally felt the whole idea of writting code on paper and getting it checked by the prof really stupid (specially when it came to profs who were OBSESSED with SEMICOLONS)     MORAL: Chances are low that you'll get close to having an in-depth knowledge of Algo and Data Structure in a typical programming class. If you are really intrested, go for SPOJ and TopCoder. This is what I felt personally.     P.S:  Tested that person by deliberately making a mistake in the looping condition of matrix multiplication code but kept all the semicolons in proper place. Guess what, got 10/10 ! :P Updated 11 Nov 2013 • View Upvotes