What is the most awesome paradox?A paradox is an argument that produces an inconsistency, typically within logic or common sense. Most logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking. Paradox
Special relativity is one such theory that provides us the maximum number of paradoxes, I suppose. I will explain some simple concepts in layman terms before going on to the answer. Length contraction -  A decrease in length detected by an observer of objects that travel at any non-zero velocity relative to that observer. Time dilation - An actual difference of elapsed time between two events as measured by observers either moving relative to each other. Ladder paradox - The problem starts with a ladder and an accompanying garage that is too small to contain the ladder. The ladder can be made to fit into the garage by running it into the garage at a high enough speed. (Sounds creepy huh :P) From the reference frame of the garage, it is the ladder that moves with a relative velocity and so it is the ladder that undergoes length contraction and it fits.. yeyy !! :P. From the reference frame of the ladder it is the garage that is moving with a relative velocity and so it is the garage that undergoes a length contraction. From this perspective, the garage is made even smaller and it is impossible to fit the ladder into the garage. Did you get it ?? It fits and it doesn't fit in the same problem. Bell's spaceship paradox -Assume there are two spaceships with a string tied between them. They both start accelerating from rest initially (in an inertial frame of reference). So, the distance between them at any instant do not change. But, the length of the string decreases due to length contractions and thus the string breaks which is quite opposite to our intuition. All famous Twin paradox -Two identical twins, one travels on a journey into space in a high speed rocket and returns back earth to find his brother on earth aged more. This result appears puzzling because each twin sees the other twin as traveling, and so, according to a naive application of time dilation, each should paradoxically find the other to have aged more slowly. But, this is definitely not true. I have one more in my mind, I am not sure whether this is a paradox or not. This was by Stephen Hawking. Assume, there  really exists a unified theory that explains everything, i.e given the present state of all bodies in the universe, you can predict the next state/future.        Why should the theory conspire us to reach towards it ? Why should the research we do lead us to get it ? It is well probable that the research may not lead us to the theory. 