What are the different kinds of tea and their characteristics?
There are five basic types of tea*. All five of them are made from the leaves of the tea plant (Camellia sinensis), and the differences between them are mostly in the processing. I say "mostly" because the flavor (and caffeine content) can be drastically affected by what part of the plant is used, when it is picked, where it is grown, and so forth. BLACK TEA This is the most familiar to the majority of Americans and Europeans. The tea leaves are oxidized (not fermented -- see below), which gives the leaves the black color and increases tannin levels. Black tea is typically prepared with boiling water, and in many parts of the world milk and sugar are added, which offsets the astringency. GREEN TEA The most common type of tea in Asia. After the leaves are picked, the leaves are heated to kill the enzyme that makes them oxidize, so they keep their green color. Antioxidant levels are higher than black tea and tannins are much lower. Green tea is prepared with cooler water, usually 175F (80C) or lower, and is hardly ever sweetened or prepared with milk (green tea lattes being a major exception). OOLONG TEA A complex variety of tea that's made by allowing the leaves to oxidize only partially. Oolongs vary from very light to almost as dark as a black tea, and there are several other common steps, including roasting and rolling. If you don't know much about oolong, try it in a tea shop where they know what they're doing first. When you find a variety you like, ask how they made it and then take some home. WHITE TEA This is the least-processed variety of tea, and by far the most delicate. The flavor is much lighter and the color is extremely pale. It is usually made with water even cooler than green tea, and steeped much longer. Contrary to popular rumors, there is caffeine in white tea. Sometimes a lot of it. See How much caffeine is in my tea? PU-ERH (or "DARK TEA") Pu-erh actually is fermented, with a process not too different from a compost heap. There are two types: sheng (a.k.a. raw or green) and shu (a.k.a. ripe or cooked). Unlike all other tea, you don't drink pu-erh fresh, especially sheng pu-erh, which is typically not considered ready to drink for seven years. The aging process dramatically changes the flavor profile. Technically, this variety of tea can't be called "pu-erh" if it doesn't come from the Yunnan province of China; it is called "dark tea" if it comes from other areas. I hope this helped! * I am oversimplifying somewhat by leaving out things like yellow tea, which is very hard to find in the U.S., and things like houjicha, which is a roasted green tea. 