What are some time-saving tips that every Linux user should know?
Learn what man, info, and <program> -h/--help do in most cases. Learn what the number inside something like ls(1) or perror(3) means. Get zsh(1) and customize it so that tab-completion works the way you want (it can be a lot more powerful than bash(1)), and turn on the option that lets you tab-complete programs' options for sure.  Use M-q and C-r extensively in the shell (the first pushes the currently-typed command onto a stack and gives you a fresh prompt, then pops the old command back into the prompt when the next command you run exits, and the second lets you search backwards through your history).  Explore all of zsh(1)'s options, there are too many important ones to list here. Learn about gpg-agent(1), ssh-agent(1), keychain(1), .authinfo, .zshrc. Learn how to use vi(1) for quick edits.  Learn that vim(1) has K bound to !man <word-at-cursor>.  Learn to use emacs(1) and its inferior modes ( M-x eshell is good, as is C-h i and M-x man) for long sequences of investigation and configuration. Learn how to write tiny programs to do things for you.  This could me vim(1) or emacs(1) macros, combinations of sed(1), awk(1), grep(1) and perl(1) one-liners, or shell scripts.  Learn to write a for loop and a while loop on the shell, and exactly how if and [[]] work in shell scripts, and what the differences are in the different shells ( csh(1)/ bash(1)/etc.). Use pgrep(1) instead of ps aux | grep <program> | grep -v grep. Turn on sudo(8)'s "NOPASSWD" option for yourself (see sudoers(5)). Store your config files ("dotfiles") in source control, and back that up somewhere (github works) so that when you reinstall, you can just git clone and be up and running again. Install a caching DNS server ( unbound(8), dnsmasq(8), or djbdns(8)), and maybe a caching HTTP proxy ( polipo(1)). Where possible, keep your hands on the keyboard and don't touch the mouse.  Window manager and application shortcuts go a long way, as does learning to do as much as you can from the command line. 