What is the simplest intuitive proof of Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm?
Originally Answered: What's an intuitive explanation of Dijkstra's Algorithm?(Edit: Note that this originally answered a slightly different question.  This answer is not a proof.) You probably do Dijksta's Algorithm unconsciously on a regular basis, though your cost model is more complex so it isn't as obvious. Perhaps you have several errands to run today.  You know you need to stop at the coffee shop, the post office, the grocer, and the druggist.  These are all in the town you live in, so you're just walking between them,  and optimizing for time -- which, assuming simple intersections, also optimizes for walking distance. In your head you have a fairly accurate mental map of how far apart these places are, so you come up with a route that first goes to the nearest one, then from there you go to the nearest one to that, and repeat for your third and fourth stops. Now in the real world, your cost model is more complex.  You know that one path, for example, takes you by the pet shop where all the cute puppies are, so you mentally take a little cost off there because you like to see them so give that way preference.  The shortest way between two of the other places involves a busy highway with no walking path, so you put a high cost for avoiding that.  You don't really want to carry your groceries to all of the other places, so you resolve to put that last.  That's why you intuitively know that even though the path directly to the druggist is shortest from your home, it involves that busy highway so it makes more sense to first go to the post office and then take the alley from there to the druggist.  It's why when driving you will sometimes choose a way that doesn't involve turns across busy traffic, because those present a higher mental cost to you. At its essence, though, it is very natural just to think of our every day getting around in terms of getting to the closest/fastest place first, then getting to the next place from that one similarly.  It is fairly rare for us to construct a mental model that accurately analyzes every point of our journeys, but rather just thinks of getting to the next one from the one where we are. This is, of course, not really all that the algorithm entails.  The common illustration of it involves idealized non-backtracking ants, with the observation that when they set out from the hive they will first arrive at various points over the simplest paths to get there.    Dijkstra's Algorithm just says that the lowest cost to get to any given spot from any spot must necessarily be the lowest cost of the path(s) to get there, no matter what other spots were passed through, and comes up with an efficient way to make sure each cost is analyzed without unnecessary repetition. Updated 9 Sep • View Upvotes