Why are Donald Trump and Ben Carson doing so well in the polls?
Because they are not "part of the mess in Washington". In 2010 voters sent an unmistakable signal that they wanted changes made, and they've rewarded the wing of the Republican Party that came in that year, so far, with reelection. Democrats have done a good job of convincing many voters that the tea party movement is wacky and scary, but sentiment to cut spending remains very high. Happily, we get to test the electorate's mood almost constantly. Maybe the majority of voters will soon yearn for higher taxes and even more Social Security and Medicaid spending for the benefit of rich people. For now, the results speak for themselves. In addition to the truly historic shift in the House, Republicans who have promised not to raised taxes have been elected to take control of the Senate, and picked up a thousand statehouse seats in the past three elections. The leader for the Republican nomination this time four years ago was... Donald Trump. He's a ubiquitous media personality. There's a huge field, and voters have to choose among Governors and Senators who are well known only in their home states. (Governor Christie became a nationally known evil guy when his former staff foolishly closed two lanes of traffic and delayed commuters who read The New York Times.) How many really know the views of John Kasich yet? They will, though, via tonight's second debate and all those to come. They'll start listening to the opinion of those around them who "know about this stuff", whether that's a newspaper or a sister-in-law. They will move away from Trump,who can be counted on to make more errors and erroneously think that improvised bluster, sound bites, and fake tough talk is what Americans would really want in our relations with other countries, or as the White House hammers out agreements with Congress. In the end, I predict the voters will choose an experienced political leader who can convince them that he or she will in fact change the way business is done at the federal level. They all (on both sides) have an incredibly steep hill to climb, because our current effort at hope and change has not delighted all Democrats, much less Republicans. Don't discount the possibility that Carson or Fiorina could become President nine years from now if they are chosen as running mates. At that point they'd be experienced and more qualified. And let me fire a warning shot here. I am sick to death of hearing that when Democrats vote for someone who isn't an old white guy like me, it's simply open minded and not even remarkable, but when Republicans do so, it's somehow reasonable to suggest that Republicans just want a new image, as if the Republicans who chose Governors Nikki Haley and Susana Martinez, Governors Brian Sandoval and Bobby Jindal, and Senators Rubio, Cruz and Scott were either unaware that these were not old white men, or they were willing to vote for someone they didn't really trust just to create a photo op for the RNC. It's cynical and offensive. 