How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
So here's a positive one. I did my undergrad from a well known engineering college in Delhi (Hint: has the name Delhi in it). During my undergraduate days, things weren't most recent. As pointed out by others Turbo C++ was still the most preferred IDE (that too in the DOS version). For Java, people would struggle with Windows and Notepad. Seldom did anyone use Eclipse. But few of us tried going beyond, we started working only in Linux and using a more richer tool suite. Now, I am a PhD student in a research institute cum engineering college, again in Delhi. As a Teaching Assistant for the Introduction to Programming course (which is a first semester course), I could now exercise what was missing during my undergard. Here are a few salient features of how it tried to get programming through to students. We used Python as the programming language. It makes life simple, especially for those who aren't from a programming background. Linux was highly encouraged. Those who still hung on to Windows were highly encouraged to use Geany, PyDEV and other modern IDEs. We tried to teach the concepts with the intuition behind them and relate them as much as possible to mathematics and everyday concepts. For instance, we all use lists in everyday life, for shopping etc. Fundamentally, lists are the same in any language. Challenges such as http://www.pythonchallenge.com/ were part of every lab. All TAs were instructed to give marks on concepts rather than correctness . FEEDBACK: We all accepted that the course is for the students and heavily took feedback from them which led to improvements every week. Competition such as SPOJ, CodeChef etc were encouraged. Formation of a challenge group: Which did most of the labs at home and discussed Algorithms and Data Structures. For each lab the question set and answer set was made available and the TAs solved all the questions themselves before giving to the students. As a result a lot of students took to Programming very well. Some from Challenge Group went on to ICPC country finals. Updated 27 Oct • View Upvotes