Why are Donald Trump and Ben Carson doing so well in the polls?
The Republican party is the victim of its own electoral success. They've won election after election, but most rank-and-file Republicans don't feel like they have anything to show for it. The anger that was previously directed towards Democrats is being directed towards the party establishment, who many Republicans feel like has disenfranchised them. So why is the Republican party so irrelevant, despite their great electoral success? This is exactly the puzzle that Republican voters are contemplating now, and the conclusion they seem to be coming to is that it's because of a lack of strong leadership and fresh blood. Sheer number of butts in seats is not the same as vision. Once you've won, or you anticipate winning, you've got to have his conversation with yourself about how to govern. The Republican party has been run for a long time now at a dysfunctional, lowest-common denominator level that cripples member's ability to do anything more than criticize each other for not being pure enough, invent conspiracy theories about powerful Democrats (especially Obama) to explain away their frustration, and threaten to shut down the government. Elected Republican officials have been becoming more and more conservative, but this is not what anybody wanted to happen. It's simply a side-effect of trying to please everybody and being afraid to tell anybody no. They're so afraid of their base that they have no slack to do anything other than create gridlock. They are following their base rather than leading them. Republicans are naturally turning to outsiders as an alternative to this, a way of breaking the gridlock and injecting new vision into the party. What voters are attracted to in Carson, Trump, and Fiorina is not just that they're outsiders, but they each have strong leadership qualities and each represent new directions for the party to go in. That is, they have priorities and they're willing to say no to some people in order to say yes to others. This new-found moderation is attractive, even to very conservative people, not because of concern about winning or losing an election, but because if you make everything your priority, then nothing is a priority. If you're unwilling to compromise, you won't be able to make any deals, and nothing will get done. This isn't the first time this has happened, either. Last time Republicans came out of the wilderness and found their savior in the form of divorced former Democrat Ronald Reagan. 