How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Oh boy, I can add to this. I come from a Tier III college in Tamil Nadu, South India. And they've managed to downgrade the standards so much, it wouldn't be wrong to create a Tier IV category especially for this. This is going to be a pretty long answer, which deals with everything I've experienced in my University so kindly bear with me. And I have a lot I'd like to jot down, just so I won't forget them ever. The situation when I came 4 years ago. Don't use mobile phones, use the pay-phone system in college. Or parents can contact you by calling the hostel. So much for privacy. -Phones are pretty much okay now. Do not talk to girls. This was enforced in the open, and not so much in the classes. So why not a single sex institution? - No one even cares anymore. A 16 marker needs 5 pages, 8 marker needs 3. A two marker needs a quarter. It doesn't matter if your answers make sense, or are even related to the subject. Just write Forrest, write! - Yet to change. You cannot appeal, agitate, or even question the college rules. We had a rule declaring canteens should not be open during class hours. And ice-cream was to be sold only during 8:00am to 5:00pm. The reason for this? No one knows. - Went out through the window, in my second year. You are not trusted by the faculty unless you are able to score good marks, help around the department, or talk well with them. I'm fortunate. I talk easy. - Still the same. You'll get one software company for every 10 BPO which visits the campus. I was among the first to get placed, in HCL Tech. And they accepted 7 students out of thousands. They try to create an image of being "The best university in South Tamil Nadu." We are engineers, "who will lead the nation", and we are expected to behave as such. Which means having to wear formal clothes, shoes. - I've disobeyed from day 1. Questions are given before every exam. I've tried to avoid these questions, but in the end the portions are so vast, and the lecturer knows nothing. They want their notes to be vomited into the paper. Again, the 3/5 page rules apply. Speaking in English is looked upon as one of the biggest achievements a person could hope for. I have friends whose biggest aim in life is "Talking English like in the movies". Don't ask doubts. The odds are the professor has mugged up what he's teaching from some other prof's notes. You'll end up being worse off that before. Or getting stuff thrown at, like me for asking how he's so sure of his method being the best. No one knows anything about coding. I was implementing a DFS in my second year, asked a PhD scholar for help. He said "This is too advanced, try web designing. HTML has more scope." Don't be yourself. I'm an easy going and chummy.. and a lot of the girls I talked to had the opinion I was trying to score, and lay my hands on every girl I could. Result? I don't talk to anyone anymore, unless I know them really well. How we are taught Every subject is taught using the board. Slides, if they are available. The faculty use outdated statistics, and don't even consider if they're stretching it thin. Like the time in 2012 when Windows 98 was the most used OS. Or the time the maximum RAM a PC would have is 64 MB. That was in 2013. I kid you not, people. We are taught programming as if the program they teach us is the only program we could possibly require to know. Algorithms? If you know some names, and how to write some pages worth of sentences with computer sounding words, you can score easily. Labs are even more fun. I'm yet to do anything of worth. Like many of the other answers, we still use the TurboC/Notepad combo for C++/Java. I had installed NP++ on my machine. And when an output was a bit off, the ma'am was "Don't be over smart, I know more than you. Use original C++" Yea, she thought TurboC was "original" C++, and I was programming in something else. In software engineering, we're given machines with Rational Software, and the diagrams. We have to copy one diagram in a 3 hour lab session. I tried implementing my own diagrams, and that was quickly written off as wrong, and simplistic. We did networks laboratory, without configuring a single server. And graphics without creating a single GUI. Internet Programming has the w3 schools logo in it's manual. You can guess what's going on there. One off incidents The class topper in my section, when asked the difference between open-source and commercial software in an interview, answered "Open Source is much more difficult to install when compared to commercial software. Eg: Linux more difficult than Windows 7". She was asked to leave the room immediately. I've installed Windows for 4 of my staff. And when a professor from CMU came for a guest lecture, the final years in my department called me to configure his MacBook Air to work with our projector. I had just started my second year then. I recently failed in an internal, Mobile Application Development for writing optimized code from StackOverflow. Reason? The prof couldn't make head or tails of it. I'm supposed to be a very good engineer and a genius. Before you boo me, please take a look at the reason. "You speak English well". I was asked by a graduated senior, if it was possible to download Wi-fi onto her laptop from another one. She didn't want something FROM the wi-fi, she wanted to download the Wi-fi, because her laptop did not have it. Staff ask students for pirated software/movies. If you know Photoshop, woe betide you. You'll be asked to develop every brochure for every frigging thing the department needs. I was not allowed to write an exam, because I had dues of Rs.9 which I had to pay at the bank outside the campus. I did write it finally after drawing in my brother's name and designation, which I dislike. During the final year project viva, a classmate was asked a particularly tough question about his project. He was "I'm sorry, I bought this project" and he got 5 marks for being truthful. More when I remember, depending on answer reception. :P I went anonymous to avoid trouble. University name is Kalasalingam University. :) Edit 1 : I graduated. So my university can basically have at me and whatnot for all I care. Anonymity removed. Updated Mon • View Upvotes