How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Well, I am from IIIT - Bangalore and we were taught extremely well. We were taught both C and Python in our first semester. I'll talk about Python since that was where I learnt the most. (I knew C/C++ from CBSE Grade 12). We had a very ambitious and amazing professor for Python, who did not believe in spoon feeding us. He gave us some of the toughest assignments I have done. The focus of the course was programming and implementing algorithms; not the algorithms themselves. (We had a separate course on algorithms the next semester). So, we were taught the basic constructs like conditionals, loops, functions and data structures like lists and dictionaries. We were then taught algorithms for RSA encryption, Huffman compression and a naive task scheduler and asked to implement it. Like I said before, the emphasis was on learning the language and not the algorithms, so while we were taught the algorithms very well, we were also given pseudo-code. This really pushed us to learn the language very well, as opposed to implementing a few simple array manipulation programs like sorting. It did help that the professor gave us a template with the function names and calls telling us what each function had to do. We had to fill in the code for each function. What it also ensured was that students could not directly copy an entire implementation of any of these programs from the internet. The assignments were graded on both the number of test cases and the style of coding/quality of implementation. (Bonus marks for proper variable names and good programming practices.) Our exams were mostly practical with a few theory questions thrown in. For our mid-sem, we had to implement the Newton-Raphson method for finding roots for a polynomial and a simple document clustering algorithm (which used cosine clustering to group a bunch of text documents given as input depending on the words occurring in them and their frequency). Of course, we were given pseudo-code and allowed to use both a text book and the internet for help with syntax. Towards the end, we did briefly cover some functional aspects of Python like lambda, reduce, etc. The course was very hard and initially most people did not enjoy it. Most of us performed miserably in the mid-sem. This however changed by the end-sem exam, where everyone had improved considerably. More importantly, the majority of my class, who had not done programming before, could easily implement virtually every algorithm they could think of. We were not limited by our grasp of the language; but only by our ability to grasp the problem. Python also became the language of choice for all programming assignments in other courses. It should go without saying that I thoroughly enjoyed this course for challenging me to the extent it did. We also had a OOP focused programming course on C++ and Java. This was in the 4th semester and was also a pretty good course. TL;DR: At IIIT-B, very well. 