What should I study for Google, Microsoft, Directi, Flipkart, and Amazon interviews a year from now?Right now i am working in a Service based company in india as SQL developer. I did my Engg from a third tier college. I have mediocre programming skills and I can spend 3-4 hours on weekdays and mostly 8-9 hours on weekends studying.
Arnab Ray and Deshank Baranwal mentioned what all are required. I strongly agree with Deshank Baranwal "Try and code problems on paper first and then run it using a compiler". Yes!! this is very important. ( I personally know many people who are very good at coding, but got rejected just because they didn't type cast properly or didn't check edge cases...and so on ) But my personal opinion varies a little regarding the preparation strategy. I would suggest to do in following order :- 1. First be thorough with one language. C++ is the best choice. Many people skip STL. please don't. 2. Then learn and implement all standard data structures(stack, queue, linked list, HASH TABLES) and operations on them 3.learn and implement searching and sorting algorithms (merge sort,quick sort,heap sort,binary search..etc)  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 4. Learn and implement standard problem solving techniques Recursion Trees : Inorder,preorder,postorder, level order traversal Backtracking,Branch and Bound,DFS, BFS Advanced trees like AVL,Suffix trees,B-trees(can skip initially but learn when required) For implementing trees, you MUST be thorough with pointers. Greedy technique Graphs: Minimum spanning tree Shortest path: Dijkstra's, kruskal, bellman ford, Floyd warshall algorithm5.  Divide and Conquer 6.  Dynamic programming. For all the above I suggest you to refer :  Data Structures and Algorithms Made Easy 2nd Edition. 5. Just learning is not enough. You must make your hands dirty and implement them. You must also know what are their running times and why is running time that much. 6. Now start solving problems on spoj( say 200 ) sorting by no. of users solved i.e. in this order Sphere Online Judge (SPOJ)    .This covers all kinds of problems. After solving you will be able to understand in which areas you are strong and in which you aren't. Improve accordingly. 7. After that start solve problems on  cracking the coding interview book. It has good compilation of interview problems in ordered manner. 8. Then goto GeeksforGeeks - A computer science portal for geeks    and  Programming Interview Questions | CareerCup only solve company specific problems which you feel tough(skip easy ones) Don't do any of these in hurry just for completing. Take your time. Understand them. Once you understood them clearly, solving a new problem is like a cake walk :) After this, prepare for puzzles and design questions which are also important. Note: Most of the people just search for code on internet. But they won't use YouTube which is far better source for learning. Reading the code understanding the logic takes more time and sometimes irritating. Lot of patience is required. So learn and understand the algorithm and then code problem. You MUST always search youtube when you are learning an algorithm.Video tutorials can be easily understood than text version of explaination and hence, lot of time can be saved. Links for channels(subscribe them): a. mycodeschool    (best of the best) b. saurabhschool  c. Page on youtube.com    d. Paul Programming e. ProgrammingInterview    f. https://www.youtube.com/user/ReelLearning/playlists g. https://www.youtube.com/user/StevenSkiena/playlists I can't tell you the plan exactly(i.e how much time it takes for each step). It all depends on how you do it. Go to next step when you are confident enough with the current. I think You will probably able to make it in 1 or 1 and 1/2 years. Disclaimer: Many people say directly just start solving problems on Sphere Online Judge (SPOJ). And there are many people who did it that way and became good programmers. But I feel searching internet and learning new algorithm every time for solving a problem on online judge will be irritating and won't be fun. Once you know all basic algorithms fun comes in applying learned algorithm to particular problem. Moreover, many a times you get stuck while solving the problem.So  you will clearly know where you are lagging and which part of algorithm you didn't understand. So I would say first suffer(learn) and then have fun(solve). Again all of this is my personal opinion and this is not "THE" way to do it. UPDATE : Below answer will also be also helpful How shall I start preparing for interviews in companies like Microsoft, Google, Directi, Flipkart, Amazon, and other such large conglomerates? Updated 30 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous