How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Seeing that most of the answers here highlight how programming isn't taught quite properly in their colleges, I'd like to add my experience in an Indian college. I'm adding this answer just to indicate the variance in the quality of programming education in Indian colleges, and to provide a contrasting opinion. I also understand that this might not be the norm for most Indian colleges, nevertheless it does provide more perspective. So here goes: There are two introductory level programming courses offered in my college (101 and 102). The former is for people with no programming experience and the latter is a rather advanced introductory course. Although, after handling syntactical issues in the first week or two, both the courses start focusing on analysis and design. The programming languages people usually begin with is Python for 101 and Standard ML for 102. Our assignments focus on understanding the specifications of a programming problem, formulating an algorithm for those specifications, and designing the requisite program. Syntactical concepts are expected to be learnt by practice, and programming concepts like randomization, memoization, modularization, recursion are embedded within the assignments, and students usually work on them individually. Lectures encompass standard data structures, programming paradigms and some particular algorithms (DFS, BFS etc.). Our examinations tackle complexity and analysis in particular, and we are never asked to write down C++ code - in fact I was a little surprised by the responses to this question where people actually quote tests which have questions like that. After the introductory course (which students of all majors have to take), we have other central computer science courses which have heavy programming work (Data Structures, Computer Architecture, Programming Languages, Operating Systems), however none of them focus on programming explicitly - each course has different computer science concepts which they cater to, albeit with assignments in different languages (from ML to C++ to Prolog). But I guess standard programming techniques are taught only in the introductory course, and we're mostly on our own after that. Through the different courses, we are taught the different programming paradigms (functional, logical, object-oriented, symbolic etc.), but primarily at an abstract level. In a nutshell, we're taught how to analyze and construct algorithms, and then are expected to implement them with a certain degree of efficiency. Perhaps that's why my college doesn't have a very coding-centric (competitive programming) environment that other top schools in India have - we do have some exceptional competitive programmers - in fact PGM, Nikhil Garg, Rudradev Basak are all alumni, but IMHO the average culture is inclined towards implementing and building stuff rather than competitive programming. Edit: The college I'm talking about here is Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IITD). Updated 23 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes