Is "be a man" a misogynist remark?
Defining Terms & Polarized Assumptions: Because only one person has attempted to define what misogyny is--I thought this might help clarify the discussion: Misogyny (pron.: /mɪˈsɒdʒɪni/) is the hatred or dislike of women or girls. Misogyny can be manifested in numerous ways, including sexual discrimination, denigration of women, violence against women, and sexual objectification of women.[1][2] Someone who says this hasn't done anything to women.  Its only because we assume they are dualistic or polar that people are throwing around their own assumptions about these terms. Facing the Reality of Cognitive Complexity: These answers are flat out ignoring reality and multiple motivations, contexts, and people.  I would echo Dan Holliday.  I would say not necessarily.  Those who are saying yes have a very narrow view of reality.   They probably see things in polar opposites.  Thats not very nuanced and not a fair representation of reality.   All of it begs the normative reason of WHY someone wants you to act like a man or the DEFINITION we are applying to "being a man." Maybe you've only heard people use it in sexist or misogynist ways, but thats NOT what the question asks. "Being a man" as in the following seems fully consistent with social equity and justice: being a good father providing for ones family sticking to ones commitments being a person of love, empathy and compassion being a virtuous human being and respecting others If this still doesn't make sense I would suggest looking into the work of psychologist James Bieri on the idea of Cognitive complexity . I depends on 3 core issues: 1) What "being a man" is defined as 2) Intent 3) Context (including to whom, tone, background and history of the relationship, etc...) This is assumes a polarized framework or worldview for the speaker (and even the critic--aka the other side in this discussion).  Those assumptions are hardly universal.  If "Be a Girl" or "Be a Woman" isn't mysoginist against women, we probably shouldn't be prejudge against someone who uses the opposite terminology.  Besides, drive and excellence is something both sexes should be striving for.  Re-claiming the Term is Better Long Term Strategy: There are actual empirical examples of the use of "Be a Man" or "Man Up" for specifically feminist causes: A global campaign to activate youth to stop violence against women and girls and others are re-claiming it for a new model of masculinity: 25 Ways to Redefine the Phrase ‘Man Up’ .  A number of Faith-based groups are doing the same.  Yes it has been abused in various segments (advertising, etc..).....thats no reason that its universally tainted or should be avoided.  Yes, it may be misinterpreted....but the idea that it has universally bad connotations is I believe false.  Plus, not using the term actually results in harm--because it allows masculinity to be defined in a manipulative and narrow focus which corrupts masculinity and men. Caveats and Reflections on Language & Our Collective Stereotypes As a side note, we often define pro-women and pro-men statements in tension, but I think thats sometimes a false conflict.  We have lots in common on the basis of the human experience and the biology of being human. Also, I think the subject should be in control of their speech to the greatest extent possible.  Sure there are words like B- and N- that I'm not a fan of, but tying people to the legacy of their words is in some respect regressive and backward looking.  If thats not the speakers intent, the history is largely an FYI. (note: I'm not exempting the B or N work in anyway--as their legacy and impact stems beyond history). Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mis... Updated 29 Apr 2013 • View Upvotes