How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Neither I'm from a tier 1 college, nor the programming in my college is taught like the way it is mentioned in most of the answers here. In fact its quite contrasting. I'll try to summarize it: In our first lab of the C Programming course (first semester) we were introduced to basic commands of Linux and VIM. All the machines in the lab were running Linux (I don't remember which distro, but I think it was Mint). We were strictly instructed to use VIM throughout the course. PS: At first I thought college can't afford Windows licence so they are using Linux. Now I realize how silly I was. In our second semester we had a course - IT Workshop. It covered plethora of tools like: 1. SED 2. Bash 3. Matlab 4. Dia 5. GNUplot 6. LaTex 7. Netbeans IDE etc In Computer Organization and Architecture course we were asked to design our own ISA (Instruction Set Architecture) and an assembler for the same in C/C++. Data Structures course was not totally theoretical, we were given insights also like activation records in recursion, stack and heap memory and how they are different from stack and heap data structures, when to use what data structure and so on... The labs were based on implementation of whatever we studies in our class. The viva of lab was more focused on the concepts rather than rote learning. Design and Analysis of Algorithms was the best course of my life. I've no words to describe its experience. The questions in the exams were absolutely application based and were kind of questions that you will expect in an interview. They were totally new, at-least for us. The only problem was that there were no labs, but you can always practice in hostel. I remember, once the students were sitting on the staircases of the Lecture Hall just to attend the class. (All the seats of LH were full!) In Operating Systems course we were allowed to choose a project of our choice. We developed a system clipboard sharing utility (Kollaborate). It was a great learning experience. Here is a screenshot of an email which we received for Software Engineering course: Well in the end it's you who have to take a step forward, college cannot do everything. Sadly, there are many CS folks in our college who are still using windows and notepad. EDIT: I'm studying in LNMIIT, Jaipur. Updated 18 Apr • View Upvotes