What is the most awesome paradox?A paradox is an argument that produces an inconsistency, typically within logic or common sense. Most logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking. Paradox
Oh this is one of my favorite discussions! I have several favorites. However, let me mention and elaborate three of them. Irresistible Force Paradox (as a part of Omnipotence Paradox) "What happens when an Unstoppable Force meets and Immovable object?" This is more recently attributed to Superman and Batman, but it is not so. This is a classic paradox. It basically challenges Omnipotence. The apparent paradox arises because it rests on two premises—that there exist such things as irresistible forces and immovable objects—which cannot both be true at once. If there exists an irresistible force, it follows logically that there cannot be any such thing as an immovable object, and vice versa. According to modern scientific understanding, no force is completely irresistible, and there are no immovable objects and cannot be any, as even a minor force will cause a slight acceleration on an object of any mass. An immovable object would have to have an inertia that was infinite and therefore infinite mass. Such an object would collapse under its own gravity and create a singularity. An unstoppable force would require infinite energy, which does not exist in a finite universe. Watch this video : Bootstrap Paradox The bootstrap paradox is a paradox of time travel in which information or objects can exist without having been created. After information or an object is sent back in time, it is recovered in the present and becomes the very object/information that was initially brought back in time in the first place. Example: On his 30th birthday, a man who wishes to build a time machine is visited by a future version of himself. This future self explains to him that he should not worry about designing the time machine, as he has done it in the future. The man receives the schematics from his future self and starts building the time machine. Time passes until he finally completes the time machine. He then uses it to travel back in time to his 30th birthday, where he gives the schematics to his past self, closing the loop. (Source : Wikipedia) Bootstrap Paradox is what you see in the movies about Time travel. Yes.. Wormholes fascinate me! A personal observation : A paradox in real life. What exactly is 'freedom of speech?' Is it my freewill to say anything and no one has the right to stop me? Even if they disagree, they should respect my 'freedom of speech' and let me speak. As Voltaire said, "I do not agree with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right to say it." But what if 'whatever' I say sounds horribly wrong? What if I speak against gay marriages and support patriarchy? What if I objectify women and hurl abuses at them? Will I be encouraged to speak my mind? Will no one ever stop me? Yes, they will. They should. But then.. Whatever happened to my freedom of speech? And if in any case they are not allowed/ encouraged to disagree, then what happens to their freedom of speech? Updated 18 May 2013 • View Upvotes