What are some time-saving tips that every Linux user should know?
ctrl-c and ctrl-d are as vital to know in linux as ctrl-alt-delete in windows in the beginning, screw "man" and google for tutorials.  Once you know what you're doing, use man, and don't annoy n00bs by telling them to rtfm. use screen or tmux if you are ever logging into a machine remotely - these things are friggin amazing.  Use these INSTEAD OF nohup, etc. learn vim, emacs, or if you must nano - vim plus %! plus posix tools is ultimately how I switched to Ubuntu from Windows learn how to chain together commands with |, 2>&1 and > learn how to groom streams with tail, head, more, less, cat, etc., especially with regards to all the little easy-to-overlook switches.   E.G. did you know that cat -n can be used to add line numbers? learn how to push jobs into the background or foreground (fg and bg, ctrl-z); learn regex and use it with grep, or possibly something more sophisticated (like python/perl/etc.); learn basic awk and/or cut for editing streams; read an armoring tutorial to prevent your box from getting hacked - speed version, don't run ssh on 22, don't allow login as root, don't use a login name people expect, use ssh keys if you know how and otherwise a gibberish password of >8 chars, run as few services/daemons as you can, put your box behind a router and use ssh tunneling to open up access to anything that isn't ssh. backup regularly, especially if you ever use rm -rf.  My personal solution these days involves running Dropbox (which has a linux client), and a cron script running rsync learn cron.  I put it off for many years but it's worth it. if somebody says to ./configure &&make && make install, try not to.  If it doesn't compile, stop right there and try a different tool.  You will waste so many days of your life dealing with broken code, especially if you're NOT a programmer.  sudo apt-get install has changed my life in linux. similarly if someone ever tells you to recompile your kernel, don't - we're beyond the days when this should be necessary wget is incredibly useful over point and click inside a web browser.  lynx can be scripted too, though it's increasingly less known. each distro is different; find a good resource for your particular setup and refer to it. 