What is the most awesome paradox?A paradox is an argument that produces an inconsistency, typically within logic or common sense. Most logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking. Paradox
Some brilliant paradoxes have been mentioned here, and I'd like to add two of my favourites: 1. Olbers' paradox: Although this has been widely explained by the evolution of our understanding of the universe, it still holds significance as thought experiment that challenged the theory of an infinite and eternal static universe. The paradox basically says (highly paraphrased here, read the wiki for a full, thorough explanation) that if the universe is static and populated by an infinite number of stars, any sight line from Earth must end at the (very bright) surface of a star, so the night sky should be completely bright. This contradicts the observed darkness of the night. The first and most obvious resolution of this paradox comes from the fact that light travels at a finite speed. Hence, we may assume that the size of the observable universe is small enough such that not every line from the earth ends up on a star. The Big Bang Theory adds another possible explanation stating that the light from distant stars and up getting Redshifted (due to the Doppler Effect) and arrive on Earth at much higher wavelengths than the visible spectrum making the night sky dark to us. (This is in fact, found to be true considering the uniform Cosmic Background Microwave Radiation that Earth receives which is believed to be residual starlight from the time of the Big Bang) 2. The Tea leaf paradox Another solved paradox (by none other than Albert Einstein in a 1926 paper), this states that while stirring a cup of tea, the tea leaves settle at the centre and bottom of the cup rather than the edges, as would be expected from the centrifugal force acting on it during the stirring. The solution, in Einstein's own words (from Einstein's Best Paper), is as follows: I begin with a little experiment which anybody can easily repeat. Imagine a flat-bottomed cup full of tea. At the bottom there are some tea leaves, which stay there because they are rather heavier than the liquid they have displaced. If the liquid is made to rotate by a spoon, the leaves will soon collect in the center of the bottom of the cup. The explanation of the phenomenon is as follows: the rotation of the liquid causes a centrifugal force to act on it. This in itself would give rise to no change in the flow of the liquid if the latter rotated like a solid body. But in the neighbourhood of the walls of the cup, the liquid is restrained by friction, so that the angular velocity with which it rotates is less there than in other places nearer the center. In particular, the angular velocity of rotation, and therefore the centrifugal force, will be smaller near the bottom than higher up. The result of this will be a circular movement of the liquid of the type illustrated in Fig. 1 which goes on increasing until, under the influence of ground friction, it becomes stationary. The tea leaves are swept into the center by the circular movement and act as proof of its existence. 