Is "be a man" a misogynist remark?
TL:DR why wouldn't you say "be an adult?"  If you think "be a man" sounds better somehow or "tougher" than "be an adult" then you are either a sexist or anachronistic (i.e. obsolete and old)... If the person is over 18, saying "be a man" is an insult.  If that person is me, I'd say "let's go outside and see who's more of a fucking man, bitch." [1] I am often tempted to say this (or things along these lines) to my 1 year old son...  He cries.  He fusses.  A lot. Instead however, I just hold him and say to him (not gently but not angrily either): "cry" "Go ahead and cry Calvin" or "kou, kou, kou ba" which means "cry, cry, go ahead and cry" in Chinese (the character even looks like a face crying): 哭 Sometimes this even works in getting him to stop. Sometimes (when I am exasperated and I know he's not dirty/hungry/hot/cold/tired, I mock him and say things like "oh, I know Calvin, I know, the world is soooooo unfair, here's a violin playing for you, you crybaby, you adorable little crybaby, keep crying crybaby." Overreacting to a crying newborn when he or she has no good reason to cry is like giving in to 0-1 year old terrorists.... When he is 12-15 years of age, i.e. when I intend to enroll him in the same Brazilian JiuJitsu gym that I frequent and also start him on a wrestling program, if he continues to cry excessively and at trivial matters, then I will sit his ass down, look him in the eyes, and say: Son, the Koreans have a saying: 'Laugh, and the world laughs with you.  Cry and you will cry alone.' If I teach him well from now until age 12, he will get it when the time comes. To answer the question, yes, it is misogynist to say "be a man." If I had had the daughter that both my wife and I had dearly hoped for, I would have taken the same exact tact as above...  Including the BJJ and wrestling classes.  She or he will be a fucking killer on the mats.  I don't know if he will go to Harvard via luck during admissions like I did or what kind of job he'll have or how much money he'll make or what gods he will or won't believe in, or what country he decides to live in, or if he wants to date boys or girls.  I couldn't care less.  He'll have confidence, discipline, and humility from his training.  And like I said, he'll be a fucking killer on the mats.  That's all I care about.  He'll be and already is a man by definition because he's got a dick between his legs that works... PS I guess that would be the second thing I'd care about besides being deadly on the mats (or the streets or playground, though god forbid).  I hope he fucks well.  But can't teach that though maybe getting in good shape and having really strong hips and legs and back from BJJ will help too... -- [1] Dave Cheng's answer to What does it feel like to be in a fist fight? Updated 28 Dec 2014 • View Upvotes