What is the most awesome paradox?A paradox is an argument that produces an inconsistency, typically within logic or common sense. Most logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking. Paradox
The Hypergame Paradox You and I are going to play a game. It's called the Hypergame. Trust me, it's fun. With a name like that, how could it not be? Here's how the game works. First, I choose any two-person turn-based game which is guaranteed to end in a finite number of moves. Then you make the first move in the game that I chose. Whoever wins that game wins the Hypergame. For instance, I could choose tic-tac-toe, and then we'd start a game of tic-tac-toe in which you play as X. On the other hand, I couldn't choose Color or Country, which is not necessarily finite, or Rock-Paper-Scissors, which isn't turn-based (or finite, for that matter). Make sense? Okay, now here's the question: Is the Hypergame necessarily a finite game? Well, it sure seems like it ought to be. After all, whatever game I choose is guaranteed to end in a finite number of moves, so the Hypergame is guaranteed to end in only one more move. Hence the Hypergame is finite. But if the Hypergame is a finite game, then I ought to be able to choose the Hypergame as my first move. Then you get the first move in the Hypergame. So hey, why not choose the Hypergame again? In this way, we can go back and forth forever, each of us choosing the Hypergame on every turn. So I guess the Hypergame wasn't a finite game after all! Er, hold on a sec. Tangentially relevant painting by Sandro del Petro I really like this paradox because of how innocuous it seems. There are no self-referential tricks like in the Liar Paradox, or direct references to set theory like in Russell's Paradox. Everyone knows what a game is, and the notion of finiteness is perfectly well-defined. So where does the paradox come from? If you're interested in seeing a novel set-theoretical resolution to the paradox, I recommend the book Vicious Circles, by Jon Barwise, Lawrence S. Moss. It's a fun but rigorous exploration of non-wellfoundedness in set theory, and it's got a nice explanation of the inner workings of the paradox. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Okay, I couldn't do just one. I love these both so much. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ The Two Envelopes Paradox This time, I'm gonna give you some money. No weird games involved, just these two envelopes with cold, hard cash in them. Actually, one has cold cash and the other one has hard cash. Sorry about that. I won't tell you how much money there is inside each, but I will tell you that one of the envelopes has twice as much money as the other one. You get to choose one. I'll take the first envelope. Oh, really? Interesting choice... Well, I'm gonna make you an offer you can't possibly refuse. Before you open the envelope, I'll let you change your choice if you want, and give you the second envelope instead. Huh? That seems pointless. Well, think about the expected payoffs here. You had a 50% chance of choosing the better envelope from the start, right? So that means half the time, the second envelope will have twice as much money as the first one, and half the time it'll have half as much. So say the first envelope has $10 in it; then if you switch, you have a 50% chance of losing $5 and a 50% chance of gaining $10. So it's objectively better to switch! Uh, okay, that makes sense to me. I'll switch to the second envelope. Good call. Okay, now let me make you an even better offer: I'll let you switch again! ...Oh. Yeah. ----- It's kind of amazing how hard this problem is to resolve; the Wikipedia page (Two envelopes problem) has a number of different versions, each a little trickier than the last. Trying to pin down the issue will lead you deep into the murky depths of probability, logic, philosophy, and the intersection between the three. It's fantastic. Updated 15 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes