How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
I am a first year student in IIT Delhi, and fortunately have a course for C language and the situation is not like it is in some other colleges in India. Our professor is just the perfect to teach any programming language. He has obtained his Ph.D in computer arcitecture from the university of Illinois at UIUC and a B Tech in CS from IIT Kharagpur. He is currently assistant professor at CSE department of IIT Delhi. His research areas cover multicore processors, network in chip, operating systems for parallel computers, and parallel algorithms. He has 5 US patents and has published 50 papers in reputed international confrences and journals. Coming to his teaching methodology, he first teaches us the basic syntax and working of the functions and then give us the aim for the program to be made, and then asks for suggestions from the students how we shoud proceed. After listening to about 5-6 students he tells the best way and types the whole program in the class and compiles it in front of us. Ofcourse we are allowed to take out our laptops and write the code in the class as well and ask doubts after compiling instantaneously. He then uploads all the programs that he made on his website for us to refer after the class. We can mail him any doubts if we have.  And also, he mails us some interesting programs to find error in the program etc. This methodology also helps us understand how to think in a structured way. I dont think there can be any better methodology to teach any programming language than this one. Besides this we also have lab sessions in which we are given some programs to be written and we have teaching assistants in the lab to help whenever we stuck. So the situation is not bad at all. Here is a link to his webpage: www.cse.iitd.ac.in/~srsarangi/ And these are some images taken in our classroom while professor was teaching: ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​projected screen of prof's laptop ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ The class looks empty but it's not. Trust me :p ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​Here's a snapshot of all the programs which he has uploaded on his website for us to refer. These are the programs which he made in the class: ​ ​ Updated 9 Nov • View Upvotes