What is the most awesome paradox?A paradox is an argument that produces an inconsistency, typically within logic or common sense. Most logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking. Paradox
The diviner paradox Let's play a little game ! You will see, it's really easy game. There are two envelopes that may contain cash. One of the envelopes always contains $1000 (let's call this envelope the envelope A). The other one contains either $1,000,000 or $0 (let's call this one envelope B). Are you beginning to guess what the game is ? Yes, you'll have to chose envelopes. But I'm going to surprise you anyway, because here's the choice : You can take either the envelope B, or both of them. Did you chose ? Of course, the obvious choice is to take both envelopes. But wait, there's more! Here is a additional information : The envelope B was filled years ago, by a diviner! This diviner can see the future, and she is never wrong. Here's what she did : If she predicted that you would take the envelope B, she put $1,000,000 in it If she predicted that you would take both the envelopes, she put $0 in the envelope B. The envelope A still contains $1000. Now what do you do? Is the choice easy? You should take the envelope B because if you make this choice, the diviner knew it and put $1,000,000 in it. You'll be rich ! If you take both the envelope, you end up with only $1000... You should take both the envelope because even if the diviner was right, the envelope was filled years ago, and your choice can't change that. You'll always have $1000 more if you take both the envelope, either $1,001,000 or $1000. What's funny with this paradox is that if you ask people to choose fast, they will often take only the envelope B, but if you let them think more, they will often change their mind. The truth is both explanations are valid, and the paradox is very interesting because it illustrates a very important question : Can a cause take place (chronologically) after its effect? And this question rises many others, regarding physics, philosophy, time travel... The paradox of Theseus' ship This one is also great, and it involves mythology, which is always fun. Now you probably know that Theseus went on a great trip, slew the Minotaur, then came back to his father. What is less known is the practical details of his trip. Theseus knew that his journey would be long, so he took some materials with him, to be able to repair his ship when it would be damaged. The first piece to get damaged was the mast. Fortunately, Theseus had enough wood and the damage was quickly repaired. The old mast was thrown into the see. As the journey continued, the ship required more maintenance and more pieces of the ship were abandoned and replaces. In the end, every single piece of the ship was replaced. Here's the question : Is the boat still Theseus' ship ? Most people will say yes. Because if not, at what point did the boat stop being Theseus' boat ? Even more so : it's the same for your cells. All your cells were replaced throughout your life. You're still the same person though, aren't you ? This doesn't seem like a paradox, but wait! There's more! What if someone harvested all the pieces that were thrown to the see and built a boat with them? Would this be Theseus' ship ? Now the answer to the first question isn't so obvious, is it? I'll let you think about it, but this paradox is also interesting because it illustrates a very well known philosophical question: What makes us "us"? "The ship wherein Theseus and the youth of Athens returned [from Crete] had thirty oars, and was preserved by the Athenians down even to the time of Demetrius Phalereus, for they took away the old planks as they decayed, putting in new and stronger timber in their place, insomuch that this ship became a standing example among the philosophers, for the logical question of things that grow; one side holding that the ship remained the same, and the other contending that it was not the same." —Plutarch, Theseus 