How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Well, most of the answers here tell only one part of the story. There are colleges like IIIT Hyderabad where programming is a culture. When you are first taught the basic of it in your first semester, if you approach it in the right spirit it can be quite fun.. Here is something which I had written about a year back          C-Programming a compulsory course at IIIT, perhaps at every engineering college, sets up the backbone for programming and an computer science engineer cannot do without it. It is in this course that we start to realize that what it is like to write our own program. In IIIT, one-month after we join the college a course called C-Programming starts. Most of the students who decide to join IIIT have at least a brief insight of programming. But, I had no idea of it but I felt that it would be fun and I'll have a very good time. Initially it was like a general course with some lab work. But, as time passed, the excitement about programming grew and we also started getting programming assignments. We had heard a lot about the programming assignments that we would spend a lot of time in front of our PC's once we start getting then and everyone (about 240 students) would be fighting over the 120 PC's at the UG1 workspace (a dedicated lab for first year students). The assignments were also very important as they meant 50% of the total marks for the course. Initially, I thought that it was not possible, at least for me, to spend long hours in front of a monitor and writing codes in plain text. But, only when one starts getting lost in his own matrix he realizes the fun in coding. Sometimes one can end up spending 4-5 hours just looking at and editing 50 lines of plain text and keep on getting the wrong answer or the segmentation fault errors (the picture is a snapshot of the upload portal of the assignments). Only someone who has went through it can realize the fun in getting the codes correct. Sometimes, it is frustrating but more often than not we do not even realize that we have been spending so much time on a single piece of code. It is a moment of ecstasy when we see the green bar with 100 marks and Accepted on the portal. During the last two days before the deadline IIIT becomes an altogether different world. Greeting like hi or hello change to questions like "how many have you uploaded". I am not sure about others but I enjoy almost every moment of it. Hope you enjoyed reading about it. " Enjoy getting lost in your own matrix IIIT-H has a very active programming club and the even as far as academics are concerned it does not end in the first semester itself... Here's another article that I had written..               You might be wondering what is the big deal with our first computer games. For me, the first game I played on the mysterious machine was way back in my third or fourth standard. Back then, I enjoyed games like Dave, Mario and Roadrash. But, this article is not about the games I like playing but the first game that I made by myself. Have you ever wondered how the games that we enjoy are made? About fifteen days back my friend told me we have an assignment which is to make a game. At first, I thought that he was joking but soon realised that it was true. Although at first I thought that it was impossible to make a game with the knowledge that we First Years have, I was very passionate and excited about it. After a change in the curriculum of the course ITWS-2 Information Technology Workshop 2 (one of the most exciting and perhaps the only course which every one enjoys ), we were taught a programming language called python and using the simple graphic interface provided by its curses module we were to make our first game. In fact, it was the first time that the First Year students were making a computer game by themselves. Although simple, the game (called Robot Bomb Diffuser - the image is a snapshot of the game) gave us the basic understanding of implementing our gaming ideas. The making of the game was like a roller coaster ride for us. We were given instructions on how the basic version of our games should look like but we were free to add more features. Apart from what I was told to make, I added four more levels of added difficulty to it. At the end of the mini-project almost all of us added at least a feature in the game which we ideated completely by us. It was additional fun playing the games made by each other. " Our first computer game Well it surely does not end here... at least 2 or 3 courses every semester have programming assignments which take hours to complete. Sometimes they can be quite tiring but you do learn a lot from them. Updated 14 Nov • View Upvotes