How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
I have seen this common mistake among the students. The Pascal's triangle. When asked to code the triangle as output. 70% of the students think like this: (because the teachers misinterpret the output pattern) To show the output they just print out 5 rows with 11 to the power (n-1). where n is the number of the row. ​ First row: 11^0. Second Row: 11^1 Third Row: 11^2 Fourth Row: 11^3 Fifth Row: 11^4. Just by entering 5 in the numbers of rows required they trick their teachers and themselves. They completely forget this: ​ This is the actual way to represent the pascal's triangle using Binomial coefficients. Coding this way will yield the required result. *for those who din't get the point* Such is the irony where students do this because the teacher wanted the answer and teachers happy with the output give full marks. Lots of people have asked me the reason and some of them also think this might not be true. A little more to be said. The way the subjects are taught; people hardly go about learning the whole thing. Instead they stick to what the exam needs. The pascal's triangle has always been tended to at the end of the introductory courses; since it requires good knowledge of mathematics (the binomial coefficient methods ). The computer science faculties assume the mathematics faculties to do their job and skip the theory. They focus on code building without the concept. Hence students fumble when it comes to build such logic. This is just an example and I am sure if you disagree with this then you are a great programmer. Cheers to that. :) EDIT: I cannot just sit tight after accusing the system of it's  incapability. As a student of an Indian college, I am bound to share my 2 cents on the way I was taught. Year 1: The introduction to C Rigourous classes and labs, each lab needing you to write codes from scratch and asking you not to use libraries even if you know them. This increases logic building capabilities. The Data Structures: Understanding very well how data is stored - (I was called a Donkey in this class at the begining; but ended up being among the TOP 5 in the end) - thinking about new data structures was a task given. Implementing these Data Structures in C, gives a very strong idea about programming. Web Designing: Understanding web elements, creating web pages. Year 2: C++ Learning to code using OOP concepts shifting from procedure and comparing the pros and cons. Expands your thinking.Algorithms Learning to implement the well known algorithms and trying to understand space and time complexity. Nothing beats a good algo. Database: Learning RDBMS and the birth of mordern day databases beating the shit out of legacy file systems. Year 3: Java: How would you like a cup of java? I would like it to be HOT! It was hot! This taught the students how to reuse code instead of writing everything from scratch, the wild avalability of classes and methods, gives you the upper hand while coding. Projects Minor Projects. Year 4 Soft Computing/Prallel computing/ <your choice> This takes us steps ahead in to research. Major Project Develops every bit of your knowledge. Many more things that are taught. It's all about getting the right person to teach you. This is a conversation I had during my college days: Me: Why doesn't every teacher teach well, don't they care about the careers of the students? Faculty: Why not? We love to teach, that's why we chose this profession, din't we? Me: Then What's the problem? Faculty: Not every one is as inquisitive as you. There are handful of students like you but the rest just want to pass and disappear. When ever I take a good class full of knowledge, the students give a feed back in their systems, "this faculty is not teaching what's meant to be taught, he's wasting our time. Please change." This is what we get for trying. So we stick to what they want. ME: O_0 A coin has two sides, care to see both? Originally answered on How are students in Indian colleges taught programming? Updated 16 Nov • View Upvotes