★Do people still write and compile programs from the command line instead of an IDE? Why or why not?I'm currently in an introductory C course and we've started learning how to compile and debug using tools such as gcc, gdb and valgrind. Is this approach still relevant in a practical context, or is using an IDE more common in the real world? I noticed that professional programmers still use no-frills word processors such as Notepad and Vim. Sorry for the noob question.
Yes, it's required skill for senior developers. especially when you work for top brands. top brands love to use new technologies. New technologies usually are cli ready instead of GUI ready. For example, Amazon had a plan to use cmake to unify their build tool. They asked my friend to investigate and train other developers. cmake does provide a GUI tool ccmake but it's not very stable on windows then since it's kind of still early stage of CMake.  So my friend asked me for help because he knew I'm a cmake guy. I won't waste my time in  writing a step  by step guide on how to configure ccmake for *different versions* of Visual Studio with tons of screen shots. My guide is as simple as, 1. find vcvars.bat bundled with VS and run it in dos cli window. 2. in that  window, run cmake cli. It always works on any version of VS or OS. DONE! So basically  you send a simple text email with one liner code to the team they can copy and paste. everyone is happy. Or you can set up ccmake and visual studio for each team member (did I mention that's a big team?) manually and they will blame you for any minor issue because no one bother reading  your manual with screen shots on how to click button or mouse. Besides, sending cli script will also make you look cool (but, point 1, you need be 100%  sure your script will always work out of the box. point 2. don't over-engineering it. make the script as simple as possible). In summary, you need cli skill: 1. If you want to get the job done and avoid mis-communication 2. if you want to stand out in a big team as quickly as possible UPDATE: In two domains, cli skill is critical: 1. low level stuff, embedded hardware, the GUI tool is not ready yet (similar situation as new technologies) or the hardware is not powerful enough to run the gui tool 2. the project is too huge (tens of linux servers running millions of lines perl/bash/c/java/sql code which has been in production for more than 10 years). You can not ask the company to dump the product simply because you can not handle vi. CLI IS DESIGNED for huge project. If you say only IDE can handle huge project, it's because you don't know *what HUGE really means*.