★Do people still write and compile programs from the command line instead of an IDE? Why or why not?I'm currently in an introductory C course and we've started learning how to compile and debug using tools such as gcc, gdb and valgrind. Is this approach still relevant in a practical context, or is using an IDE more common in the real world? I noticed that professional programmers still use no-frills word processors such as Notepad and Vim. Sorry for the noob question.
I'll answer this from the point of view of being an educator teaching a very similar (perhaps the same?) course that you have mentioned here. Some of this you will find in common with previous contributions. I find that when beginning programmers start with a particular environment or IDE, it becomes a crutch. They are not able to use different environments and that will severely hamper your employment opportunities. Not only this, but I am interested in getting you to understand what is going on, not just be able to write the code. So, I want you to understand the steps involved in compilation and I find that comes easier if you are using the compilation tools directly rather than having some third party piece of software building the bridges between components for you. All the other points mentioned are still very relevant for me. I don't use IDEs myself when I am developing as they create greater complexity for me and get in the way of what I am doing. That does not mean of course that I don't use tools to build larger projects - I do. For example in small sized projects I will write my own makefiles but in larger projects I will use an automated tool to build makefiles, such as cmake. Having said all that, I am not averse to using an IDE for a project if others on that project are using it as a common development environment can mean the ability to have greater common conversations than there would be otherwise. I think the name of the game for a learner in any field is flexibility. You don't want to build rigidity into your approaches earlier on as a learner as that will inhibit your development later on.