★How important is it to learn command line interfaces?I'm currently learning Python, is this something I should spend time learning, or just go straight to learning more Python?
In my opinion, if you are serious about programming, it's extremely important to become comfortable with the CLI. I'm an Economics major, and I got my feet wet with Python as well, but it wasn't until I started using the bash shell through the Terminal on my Mac OSX that I really felt like I actually had any power over, or a good understanding of the workings of my computer. Using the command line is like being able to talk to your computer, and offers unlimited flexibility. You asked whether you should spend time learning this, and I would say yes. What I have discovered about programming is, it's impossible to actually learn it by simply learning one language, without understanding the technologies at play behind the scenes. At least, in my opinion. You will have to learn how to manage complex systems and understand the processes that run concurrently. You can't stop learning one thing, in order to learn another- it has to be done simultaneously, and continuously. Learning Command Line is a lot of fun, and you are constantly surprised by all the things that you can do with it. For example, initially, I was pretty blown away by the fact that you can send emails from the shell. After this, I never composed an email through the Mail client. That's a basic function, but there are other, more important things for which CLI makes things much more efficient. For instance, if you are working on a project, you are bound to eventually learn about version control. If you decide to use Github, you will need to generate an SSH key, in order to commit and push your code. To do this you will have to use command line. You will learn about different shells. You'll eventually learn how to write and execute scripts. You will need it to communicate with your servers. You will use it to find files, to move files (mv), to search inside files (grep). You will be able to use it to to extract data from files (awk). It gets quite complicated, and each of these commands actually have their own manuals. The good news is that you don't have to remember all the commands. The Command Line Interface gives you extreme flexibility to actually tinker with the brain of your computer. I find it pretty awesome. Once you start using the Shell, you will begin to think of the GUI as clunky and poorly designed. Plus, you never have to take your hands off the keyboard.  For a very basic intro to the CLI, read http://cli.learncodethehardway.o...