★What are the techniques available for infering the structure of graphical models from time series data?
Methods are highly dependent on what type of structure you wish to infer. Infer conditional dependence relationships between p random variables based on the instantaneous correlation between m time series observations for each of the p variables. Infer conditional dependence relationships between m temporal observations based on the instantaneous auto-covariance of a single random variable Infer conditional dependence relationships between p random variables based on pairwise-coherence, pairwise-information or other such measures of association commonly found in the time-series literature Infer conditional dependence relationships between p random variables that vary dynamically over time. I'll assume that you are already familiar with graphical models and their connection to inverse correlation matrices for Gaussian data. Also see What is physical meaning of inverse covariance matrix (or concentration matrix, precision matrix), and how to calculate it? Time series observations typically have some kind of ordering. For instance,  observations closer in time are correlated  whereas observations farther apart in time are independent . The covariance structure for such short range dependence often takes the form o  banded or toeplitz matrices. The entries of the inverse of such the covariance matrix for a time series would have the following interpretation: The observation at is independent of the observation at conditional on all the other observations if and only if the entry of the inverse covariance is zero. In the case of auto-regressive time-series models of order 1, the inverse of the covariance matrix takes a banded form. It is in fact tridiagonal with the remaining off-diagonals set to 0. This is because in auto-regressive time series of order 1, every observation at time is only conditionally dependent on its past observation Alternatively, one may be interested in looking at covariance between time-series at different frequencies or looking at directed mutual information measures  such as predicting how the time-series before time of one variable influences the time series after time of another variable.  For such extensions to partial coherence or partial information based graphical models, I  highly recommend Brillinger's introduction to the types of graphical models one can infer using time series. Brillinger, David R. "Remarks concerning graphical models for time series and point processes." Brazilian Review of Econometrics 16.1 (1996): 1-23. Graphical Models from Autoregressive time series (Type 1. ) Songsiri, Jitkomut, Joachim Dahl, and Lieven Vandenberghe. "Graphical models of autoregressive processes." Convex Optimization in Signal Processing and Communications (2010): 89-116. Covariance and precision matrix estimation for high-dimensional time series (Theory for using dependent time series to infer traditional graphical models) Dahlhaus, Rainer. "Graphical interaction models for multivariate time series1."Metrika 51.2 (2000): 157-172. (Directed graphical models based on directed mutual information type measures. These are not truly causal, but merely replace undirected correlations with alternative asymmetric measures of association). Bach, Francis R., and Michael I. Jordan. "Learning graphical models for stationary time series." Signal Processing, IEEE Transactions on 52.8 (2004): 2189-2199. (The algorithms here are a bit dated as they are from pre-graphical lasso era). Liu, Yan, et al. "Temporal graphical models for cross-species gene regulatory network discovery." Journal of bioinformatics and computational biology 9.02 (2011): 231-250. Structured Penalties for Spatio-Temporal Graphical Models (Type 2.) Global space-time models for climate ensembles. Kolar, Mladen, et al. "Estimating time-varying networks." The Annals of Applied Statistics 4.1 (2010): 94-123. This category is not very well explored, primarily because the precise formulation of the problem and penalties is very much dependent on the application. Do you have a model for how edges in the graphical model vary over time ? In some cases forcing edges in a graphical model to be similar over time could make sense.  Caveats: You will likely find a number of papers in quantitive biology that analyze networks based on time series data. Most of these papers assume they are studying causality (but they aren't really), and the vast majority have not studies the underlying statistical techniques rigorously. I would avoid them as far as possible and go straight to the stats methodology papers. The vast majority of work in this area has been done by econometricians.    Embed Quote