★What are some applications of Probabilistic Graphical Models?
During my last week as a medical student, an emergency medicine doctor took me aside and explained that "medical decision making is all about Bayes' Theorem."  The physician did not have any mathematical or technical background, but his insightful comment summed up the beauty of probabilistic graphic models. PGMs  are excellent tools for making decisions and calculating the probability of a particular outcome based on (often incomplete) collections of prior knowledge. In medicine, a physician makes her/his diagnosis based on the information at hand, which is never 100% reliable or complete. A patient that comes to the emergency department complaining of abdominal pain can have one of many conditions causing abdominal pain. If we know that she's a young woman in her twenties and that her pain started around her belly button and moved to her lower right abdomen over the course of a day, our list of candidate diagnoses changes so that appendicitis moves higher on the list. On the other hand, if our patient was an elderly woman who had been hospitalized many times with similar complaints and that her abdominal pain was in her lower left abdomen, the most likely diagnosis would be another condition called diverticulitis, rather than appendicitis. Medical jargon aside, probabilistic graphical models lend themselves well to computer-aided diagnosis (and fault analysis, and genetic inheritance analysis) because they use prior probabilities and a sequential flowchart of events to reach conclusions on outcomes based on preceding events. Unlike black-and-white (IF - THEN) logic, they are useful in cases in which we want to model events as a series of interconnected probabilities of events. They are also great for cases in which our prior knowledge has holes in it. If you'd like to learn more about PGMs, I can highly recommend Prof. Daphne Koller's  Coursera course. She presents several interesting examples, including medical diagnosis, in the introductory lectures: Coursera class on Probabilistic Graphical Models by Prof. D. Koller    Embed Quote