★How important are data structures and graphical models for machine learning?title.  And what books / videos / resources would you recommend learning from?
In general data structures and algorithms go hand-in-hand. In some sense, efficient data structures not only enables efficient data storage and access but also makes certain 'efficient' algorithms realizable. Machine learning comprises of class of computer algorithms that are designed to work on 'varying' data. Unlike the algorithms (code) that does only what is told by the programmer (e.g. find square root, find if numbers are relatively prime etc.), machine learning algorithm (code), based on a model, learns what to do (up to some extent) by looking at the data. So, data structures have same importance as it would in case of any algorithm. Many machine learning algorithms assume certain data structure for a model - for example - a class of machine learning algorithms assume probabilistic model - to explain 'possible' cause-effect relationship in an uncertain setting (i.e. probabilistically). One would be comfortable with such algorithms if they are familiar with graph data structure. Similarly, some of the ML algorithms assume a metric space representation-model in which similarity and distance measures are used as learning and decision criterion (e.g. k-means, SVM etc.). In such a case, matrices (Array data structure) are useful.  So, in a nutshell, yes, data structures play an important role in machine learning - can sometimes differentiate between whether your machine learning algorithm is practically feasible or just a theoretical play-tool. Theoretical tools only excite very small number of people out there and from "engineering" perspective, not at all useful. To learn data structures, as far as I know, machine learning algorithms related books do not introduce the readers to data structure fundamentals in the depth that a beginner on this subject would appreciate. Most of them take that knowledge as a prerequisite. So, take a look at any standard books on the subject (see How do I learn Data Structures and Algorithms?). Also, follow Data Structures topic and few people whose interests are aligned with the topic (if you have not yet done so).    Embed Quote