★What is the difference between HTTP and FTP?
Protocol is a set of rules and conventions that some humans agreed upon years ago which define how data and information goes from one place to another. To get down a little deeper, these rules and conventions do not exist only virtually, they have been written (or rather, programmed) for either hardware or software or sometimes for both. Just like you have your applications (MS Word, MS Paint and stuff) programmed by people for your computer, similarly protocols are written for the networks-- how they should work, which rules to follow etc. Hypertext is just a text displayed by the browser in your computer which has references called hyperlinks whose job is to link one page to another. The reason why all the hypertext is not hyperlink is because they have not been activated yet. 1. HTTP: HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol which is mainly used by the World Wide Web (which is not the same thing as the Internet, visit World Wide Web and Internet for the distinction)  to link all the documents on the Internet. For example, when you click on someone's profile on, your browser makes an HTTP request to Quora's server and then the server responds back with the person's profile. You can actually see this request by typing Ctrl+Shift+I in your browser, going to the Network tab and then going to a website. After a while, on the left pane, you should see a few options, just click on one of them, the request should look something like the following: GET / HTTP/1.1 (and then a lot of stuff here...) Now, the following line is interpreted like this: 1. GET- is just a method of sending the request, you might also have encountered POST. 2. '/' - this indicates that the path the browser requested for. In this case, it's '/' which is also called as 'root' which just means, in Layman's terms, give me the main document. It could have been '/about.html' if it wanted 'about.html' in the parent directory. 3. HTTP- name of the protocol. 4. 1.1- version of the protocol, an alternative might be- 1.0. In a nutshell, HTTP is that protocol which is used by your browser and the servers your browser communicates with to transfer data and information between each other. 2. FTP FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol. And as the name suggests, it's that protocol which defines how files will be transferred from one computer to the other on the Internet. Remember the time you downloaded that MP3 music in your computer? Or that document you really needed which you downloaded the other day? All of that happened because of FTP. When you were uploading the site, you used this protocol only (FTP) to transfer files from your computer to the server (the computer where our website is hosted). Now, both of these protocols use TCP/IP (think of these two as sub-protocols). TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol and IP stands for Internet Protocol. TCP is responsible for getting the main files, data and information which is required. On the other hand, IP is responsible for figuring out where to get these files to (which computer). Now, there are two similar terms you may heard of HTTPS and SFTP (note the 'S' in both of them). These stand for HTTP Secure and Secure FTP respectively. This just means that the way information is transferred from one point to another (be it a file or a document or a page) is being done in a secure manner using something called SSL Encryption. This is where my story ends for I have not done much cryptography and have only a high-level idea of how SSL actually works. To know more, you always have your best friend Google. :) Hope it helped, thanks. :)