★Are Java application servers obsolete in terms of their deployment and operations?This article argues that they are: Java application servers are dead! - JAXenter
First, for the witty answer: I assume if that author was able to get his article published on the Internet, then it must be true. In reality, the answer is more complicated. Application servers represent large, established bodies of work. No matter how good a large body of work is, it will evolve more slowly than the industry around it, because once you know where you're headed, changing something is harder than creating something. The truth is that application servers have already addressed many of the objections that the author raises. On the other hand, it took more time for those objections to be addressed, because those application servers (like WebLogic and Glassfish, that I work closely with) had to change without breaking all of the existing applications and operational procedures and use cases that already were depending on those products. When a software product exists, it is by default a legacy product. However, only in software does the word legacy have a negative connotation. Take an application server like WebLogic, for example, that is used by almost every major company in the world. At a telco that I spoke with recently, they manage over 1000 production WebLogic domains (that's many more than 1000 servers) with a total of 3 IT personnel. That's a pretty impressive legacy! Nonetheless, all of those criticisms seem to have some merit, and are likely based on real world frustration using a sizable and complex piece of system software. I don't want to gloss over the need for application servers to evolve to address those frustrations, and in the meantime, there will be projects and developers that move to other solutions. At the same time, it's worth pointing out that application servers are here to stay, and continue to carry a heavy load as a key part of IT environments. For the sake of full disclosure, I work at Oracle, including on WebLogic and Glassfish. The opinions  and views   expressed in this post are my own, and do not necessarily  reflect  the    opinions or views of my employer.