★If a company starts using an enterprise-level social business suite (think Jive or Chatter), what happens to the intranet?Does the intranet get phased out? If not, what does the intranet do that the SBS doesn't or can't do? How do you make both useful?
I really like Chris McGrath's answer. His sharing of James Robertson's framework makes pretty clear that ultimately Social Business Software will be the modern incarnation of the intranet. With that said, "intranet" means a lot of different things to different companies. The ability to replace it (even if there is the desire) varies widely depending on what they currently use it for and/or have hard wired into it. At this point, we are seeing many of our customers begin to refer to Jive's solution as their intranet and are starting to see an uptick in companies explicitly looking to do an intranet replacement. I think this will increase with the advent of Jive 5, which in my mind addresses the remaining communication, integration, and platform needs that were holding back some.  I suspect other vendors in the space are seeing the same dynamic.  Ultimately, I think the architecture of these systems will shake out like this: Cloud Delivered Apps (brought into the enterprise securely via a standards based market and leveraging the social graph of the Social Business Platform) \/ \/ \/ (Prebuilt integration) Social Business Platform (Communication, Awareness, Action, Content, Collaboration) /\ /\ /\ (Prebuilt connectors or accelerators) Existing Systems & Infrastructure. (I put these into 4 buckets) 1. Transactional Systems of Record (CRM, SCM, PLM, ERP, etc)     - Application Streams     - Workflow Integration (View, Decide, Comment)     - Apps (Small format UI created by IT or SI's tailored around a use case) 2. ECM/WCM (content that is auth controlled and subject to workflow and/or compliance) 3. Communication (email, chat, voice, interactive video) 4. People Systems (Anything that is part of the mature profile and unique to a person that will assist in engaging with them, understanding their skills, or who they are) With all of that said, I strongly suspect that there will be much less debate around this subject in 2014 than there may be now in 2011 :-)