★What comes next in enterprise social networks and Intranets?Products like Yammer and Salesforce Chatter are still in their infancy. What will come next? What are the issues the existing problems do not solve well?
As a few have mentioned here, the latest movement in Enterprise Collaboration is social intranets which bring the company together to share information. Many organizations are looking to SharePoint to achieve this, as SharePoint On-Prem is a great way to keep information within the internal environment while allowing collaboration and social happenings. This is especially relevant to companies that are maturing in the digital age as Facebook and Linked in have created information governance concerns. By giving the employee base alternative ways to share (that is kept internally), it creates a culture of innovation and corporate personality. Emails and IM were the traditional method to have conversations, now companies are allowing social pages within the intranets for sharing news, ideas, therefore collectively bringing the entire company together even if they are not physically local. One example of this is allowing departmental blog pages that share wins, news, and learning from mistakes - which allows others within the organization to comment and provide advice / solutions to problems. On the other hand, organizations may also want to limit who can see what pages within the organization - for example permissions for who can sensitive information. They want highly sensitive information to stay within a department yet allow collaboration for the team. An example such as having a research page for an R&D project that only allows those working on the project privy to the information. In other words, creating specific work groups and social pages for specific groups. This is why SharePoint has been so successful - it allows the best of both worlds. I will disclaim that I work for ConvergePoint (http://www.convergepoint.com), we are helping many organizations create these intranets - organizations are always bringing new ideas innovative ideas to the table - but one thing is clear - Social Communication for the Enterprise Is In and will only get stronger. From here, I would also expect to see more technological integration between applications - or at least a central application such as SharePoint. Organizations are using SharePoint to create policies and procedures, then linking these policies and procedures to other systems such as EPIC etc. This is creating a greater sense of governance, transparency, and organization for the enterprise. From there, the integration with these applications and the integrated social applications such as a SharePoint Intranet will take the organization to another level of cohesion. Its all about the idea of sharing information in a way that brings all of the pieces of the enterprise together while also having ability to limit the information when needed.