★What is important to consider when designing an intranet for a large company?I am helping my company audit our internal web site so we can have a more efficient system. I would like to know what other companies are doing that works.
Depending on the size and requirements of your company, an intranet can have completely different purposes, so it very much depends on what you want to achieve - different things work for different companies. Intranets in the past Just to give you a high level idea, in the past an intranet was usually a top-down portal for News - distributing relevant information and updates to the employees Policies, procedures & forms - providing a central repository to ensure everybody knows what i.e. the HR or IT policies are. Modern intranets In the last couple of years many companies expanded their requirements and expect their intranets to deliver far more than just the above; just to name a few more criteria: Collaboration - the intranet is seen as a collaborative platform which enables knowledge sharing through wikis and forums Engagement/Participation - many intranets now include blogs, allowing not just the marketing/internal communications department (which traditionally was responsible for dispersing information) but also departments heads/C-level executives to communicate their message and engage their employees in a more direct fashion. Social - the rise of social media made it very tempting to not just use them for engaging external customers but also providing enterprise-level social media capabilities for internal use Automation - Many tasks in organisation are repetitive but due to their nature do not fall necessarily within the scope of other systems (i.e. consolidating input for a weekly report and getting it automatically send out). Intranets are seen as a good place to implement workflows for automating recurring tasks. Accessibility - the classic intranet that you can only use when you are in the office and on a corporate PC does not really fit into our modern world anymore where end users expect to be able to access content anywhere, anytime. The challenges The problem I've seen so far is that many organisations tried to expand their current intranet to fulfill all the above requirements, but since the original portal was never designed to be more than that, you get a very cluttered, incoherent user experience. Things that mostly cause problems are: Wild growth - most intranets in SMEs got implemented without a governance in place to ensure that the users have a coherent user experience; new sites, libraries, work spaces etc pop up everywhere. Structure - many intranets are based on the organisational structure at the point in time when the intranet was commissioned (i.e. each department has their own section). In the modern world organisations change quite a lot though, departments get merged, renamed or take on different responsibilities. Every time redesigning the intranet is not feasible. No vision - goes together with the wild growth. The lack of vision of what the intranet is supposed to be means everybody has their own interpretation, hence you get a very inconsistent usage and experience. No ownership - many intranets where implemented to "just have an intranet like all the other companies". Companies tend to invest more time and energy into ERP or CRM projects, even though the data in these systems makes up only a fraction of the overall data in the organisation (Unstructured data). Since an intranet is used by all employees, capturing requirements from all stakeholders and implementing a steering group to ensure that the systems is maintained properly after its release is an important factor. There's more, but i hope it gives you an idea of what an intranet could be and what the most common issues are Now if you just want to see how other companies design their intranets, StepTwo runs a competition for the top corporate intranets - Intranet Innovation Awards - Step Two Designs