★What is the purpose of having a company intranet, and what should be posted on it?Should it be for top down communication? A notice board? Inter-company communication? A recipe sharing hub? An idea portal? All of the above? What's the point of it and how should it be used to optimal effect?
I think a successful company intranet should have all of the modules you mentioned, but it should primarily facilitate intra-company communication and drive open ideation with a proper feedback process in place. It should also have some kind of gamification element built in it to "reward" active users and encourage new users to participate. Company intranets should be easy-to-use and adopt; complex tools without a user friendly UI always come with a steep learning curve, and this can put off new users. All companies have information data store, and an intranet should help organize such information. Intranets can function as: Knowledge management portals: get rid of employee induction manuals and training documents. Put them on your web-based intranet where others can easily view them as well as give their feedback and suggestions. Discussions and Ideation tool: Submit ideas, let others vote and give feedback on them. Submit your suggestions on company policies and help kick-start a healthy debate on them. Intranets with proper discussion management tools help facilitate an open atmosphere within the company and act as a feedback loop involving employees across all departments. With proper permission controls in place, such discussion boards can really help improve the company culture. Powerful search engine: If an intranet has a fast and effective search engine built-in, it will help users find information much faster. With time each company builds up its own information store, which can range from knowledge and process practices to question and answer threads on various topics. A good search engine within the intranet helps in quick discovery of content improving not only employee efficiency but also reducing content duplicity. Peer networks: Research shows that peer networks help in faster knowledge  assimilation and sharing. Intranets with social features built in help connect different employees across departments who might otherwise not get to know each other.