★Will enterprise social networks replace intranets?
From ClickZ.com... Surprisingly or not, social media can provide legitimate business potential for brands who strategically embed the technology into their operational processes. Tech companies have yet to slow down when it comes to innovation. Apple purchased social analytics company Topsy for $200 million, Facebook acquired WhatsApp, a messaging app, for more than $19 billion, and Amazon is set to release a smartphone with 3-D e-commerce capabilities. As it looks right now, innovation has yet to curb. And no other market has experienced the surge of innovative developments more than social media. What once started out as a slightly vain platform for sharing pictures of dinner and vacations has evolved into amulti-billion dollar industry that has enthralled consumers and even made its way into Fortune 500 organizations. Surprisingly or not, social media provides legitimate business potential for brands who strategically embed the technology into their operational processes. There are countless issues faced by enterprises throughout the globe that can be solved or alleviated through a creative use of social networking technology. Whether it involves solving a customer service issue on Twitter or equipping a marketing team with a custom social network for collaboration, social business are legitimately providing serious competitive advantage. Is There Room for Improvement When It Comes to Communication? There is no denying the communication capabilities of social networks like Facebook and Twitter - long-lost siblings have united through a Facebook post and entire revolutions have sprouted from a flurry of spirited tweets. It is quite clear that social media has completely disrupted the communication paradigm. In fact, enterprise social networks (ESN), which are essentially custom-built social media platforms for corporate use, are being adopted by some various international brands. For example, Burberry, renowned for its innovative use of technology inside its retail stores, has implemented Salesforce Chatter as their customized ESN. The interface for the software resembles the standard layout for a social network, which works wonders for user adoption. Employees receive real updates from the chief executive (CEO), the chief operation officer (COO), or any pertinent executive attempting to communicate to their global workforce. And on a smaller scale, store managers, associates, and regional managers can converge in discussions in a news feed or share special moments of customer service interactions to inspire the group. ESNs are the future of corporate communication, and social networks like LinkedIn and Facebook have directly contributed to this trend.... [Read the rest of the article here: When Social Strategies Can Optimize Business Processes]