★What comes next in enterprise social networks and Intranets?Products like Yammer and Salesforce Chatter are still in their infancy. What will come next? What are the issues the existing problems do not solve well?
1. Social media with context and more, used as a way to mapp all knowledge and precesses in the company. When all social activity that reflects user behaviour is able to generate context for content and people, we'll have and organic structure in motion. Example: a) I comment on an article with keywords. I have activity around these keywords, therefore, they're associated with my profile. b) People interact with my comment and i gain popularity related to those keywords. c) People rate my social activity and i gain relevance and my expertise gets qualified by other colleagues. Conclusions: - You can not only map processes and knowledge but you also map talent. Better yet, it maps itself. - Add in a recognition system that reflects achievements, reward and performance and you can easily create guru rankings in an organization. - Want to find a very specific profile, look fro the key attributes (keywords) and read the accessory data on them. When yammer, chatter or Jive nail this, a new phase of intranet will begin. You can't (or it's very difficult to) connect every system into one database but you can standartise social information and search that instead. 2. Mobile workspace will grow as much as the smartphone and tablet industry and so will adoption, want it or not. The switch from e-mail to alerts on apps or chat apps will be natural. The change from meetings to video conference from your handset, sharing with your camera will be a reality. 3. I believe the change is we'll stop calling it filesharing, collaboration and gamification. The only way to revolutionise intranet and stop calling it intranet is to instead focus on what the business purposes of this change is. - Work from anywhere and make the most of your commute time - Solve problems immediately having access to all the necessary comms tools from any device - Make decisions collaboratively using work apps on any device and anywhere - Make sure everyone globaly has access to knowledge and resources and your company will be at least efficient.