★What is the best Search Engine for a private intranet?Something like Google Search would be ideal - but our website content is all locked down (password controlled), only authenticated users can access the content. The ASP code is on a Microsoft Server.
You could use a Google Appliance, which is relatively easy to get up and running. But now that the Google Mini has been discontinued (it used to start at  about $3K for up to 50K documents, and $10K for 300K documents) there are only the full Google Appliances, and imho they are prohibitively expensive for what they offer. (Google Mini has basically been replaced by the SaaS or "cloud" version, Google Site Search, but that wouldn't work for an intranet unless it's a public intranet.) GSA pricing isn't public, but the last time I saw a price list, they started at something like $25K... If you're using SharePoint, SharePoint's built in search is actually quite proficient at crawling sites (even sites outside of SharePoint, that are password protected) -- often there's no real need to upgrade to Microsoft's FAST for that. You could also use Thunderstone Webinator which starts at $990 (they also have appliances), and has its quirks but is possibly easier to set up. Coveo has Coveo Expresso, which might be a nice free option for a Microsoft environment (depending on what you want to index). If you like Java open source, have a look at Nutch (Lucene-based) but it'll take more technical accumen than the other options. (If you have good Java devs with enough free time, you could go for a much more custom Lucene or Solr setup, but without development, those will do nothing -- they're basically just Java libraries.) I would forget about the likes of FAST, Autonomy, Endeca, not because those are bad choices, but because it sounds like you have relatively straightforward requirements. Those systems have a huge feature set, but that comes at a price -- both in licensing, but also a much higher burden of actually setting up and maintaining them.