★What are the best practices to launch a social intranet?I would like to know what are the most important things we should consider when launching a new social intranet.
Launching a social intranet is similar to launching any new software within a company or to the public. It needs to be user friendly, designed with a goal in mind, simple, and mobile optimized. Highly recommend going through an exercise of top priority goals for your portal. Then look for a solution that will help you facilitate those goals. There are typically 3 main reasons for an intranet/portal: 1) communication (break down silos, communicate better) 2) collaboration (see what you're working on, work efficiently together) 3) resource/knowledge sharing (create a doc repository or a knowledge library with forums, wikis, files, blogs etc, help each other learn quickly, prevent reinventing the wheel) But like any website, software, product or business out there, it needs to evolve. It has to. So it's highly recommended that you find something that is flexible and can be manipulated without a lot of technical work - especially as your business changes. Your business will change. If it's not... that's a completely separate problem. Also, you need others to buy into this new solution. Years ago, management would dictate what their employees use. Today, however, with so many social consumer-based solutions that are very easy to use, employees are expecting something easy to use and easy to configure. If it's not easy, they're just not going to use it. Test solutions before you buy. There are so many out there! On launch day, make a big event about it. Get people excited. At Igloo Software, we help our customers think of ways to market and plan for their intranet launch. Igloo Software (Igloo is an intranet you'll actually like) is both flexible and easy to use. As your company grows, your intranet needs should evolve with you. Igloo offers a drag-and-drop interface to easily modify your navigation, the apps you want to use or don't want to use, and page layouts. If you'd like to learn more, reach out to us! sales@igloosoftware.com