★What is the most all-inclusive internally-focused social media/intranet/collaboration and knowledge management platform on the market today?
Gil Yehuda is right on the money (as always).  There are lots of choices, and the best choice depends on your requirements.  And each of the various vendors responding here definitely have their own bias - myself included. That said, if you want the most capable and feature rich Enterprise Social Network package, our Fogcutter suite is definitely worth a look.  Our products do all the "standard enterprise social network stuff", but so much more.   Our focus is on providing the suite of capabilities that can fully unite knowledge of all types, at all levels, throughout your enterprise.   To that end, our ESN product integrates with all types of data sources, including enterprise calendaring / groupware systems, blogs, CRM systems, BPM / workflow engines, business events from an ESB/SOA backend, etc.  And it also integrates with our semantic processing layer which can extract semantic meaning from unstructured text, and incorporates that semantic content into a searchable knowledgebase using the industry standard Semantic Web stack. This semantic integration layer is what lets us build firms an Enterprise Knowledge Network, which can fully integrate all of your disparate knowledge repositories and IT initiatives - Big Data / Data Lake systems, Open Data initiatives, Internet of Things data, you name it. Another positive to our products is that they are all 100% Open Source, which provides you with a great deal of future proofing and risk mitigation.  All of that said, while I am very biased towards our products, I can't take anything away from our competitors.  Jive Software have a nice product set, IBM has some decent stuff, and Yammer is handy if you're a Microsoft heavy shop now.  I encourage you to read up on everything that's out there, call and talk to multiple vendors, and do a careful evaluation aimed at identifying the highest value needs you have.  Remember, a good vendor partner isn't just trying to sell you a product, they're trying to help you solve business problems that will help your organization prosper. Anyway, f you're interested in learning more about our offerings, I'd be happy to chat with you anytime.  Just drop me a line.