★What is the best wiki engine for small business intranet documentation?
With almost no constraints given in the question, what is 'best' is a matter of personal taste. As such, giving and objective answer to this question isn't really possible. That said, I can give some pointers to things to consider: I personally prefer the wiki to be integrated with other applications in a cross-functional 'suite'. If you're developing software, some good examples of this are: Fogbugz. Fogbugz has a bug tracker, a version control system (Mercurial based), a wiki and other features all combined. This makes it easy to link from requirements specification, over source code changes, and to bugs -- and their resolution. Fogbugz is my current favorite for smaller software developing companies, because it has a very user friendly and responsive user interface (UI). Atlassian's suite of applications. Atlassian makes several products, which are available stand-alone or together. Confluence is their wiki. Atlassian's products can do more than Fogbugz can, but I find them less user friendly -- there are many more settings to tweak, and the UI isn't as responsive as Fogbugz's (less Ajax'y). Atlassian's products are great for more demanding users though, and they have a larger installed base than Fogbugz More universally applicable approaches to the 'suite' concept are: Wikis integrated with social intranet platforms, or wiki-like functionality in social intranet platforms. Some examples are Jive, ThoughtFarmer, and others. Wikis integrated with document sharing platforms. Some examples of this are Microsoft Sharepoint, to some extent Google Apps, and others.For the two types above, see this conversation: What is the best Intranet platform for a midsize company? If you prefer stand-alone or pure wikis, then some of the better options IMHO are: MoinMoin. A very 'pure' or 'classic' wiki engine. DokuWiki. A wiki engine optimized for creating technical documentation, but very useable as general wiki as well. MediaWiki. The platform behind Wikipedia, 'nuff said. ScrewTurn Wiki. If you want a free, standalone wiki running on Microsoft Windows this is perhaps your best choice. HTH,