★What is the best way to organize the content on your intranet?I've seen topical intranets, role base intranets, conversational intranets, and organizational intranets (e.g. by the company's organizational hierarchy).  Which approaches do people find most useful? easiest to manage over time?
Consistency. The tools don't matter very much, but how they're implemented is a very big deal. The intranet should Be fast Have human-readable URL's Use consistent themes and colors Be checked regularly for dead links. Have the latest information. Support search and browse Use a familiar navigation technique (breadcrumbs, persistent menu) There are CMS's that make some of these jobs a lot easier. Now, for organization. Pick an ontology and stick with it. This may require forcing people to pick a tag/section/bucket to put their intranet documents in. Pick one, and stick with it. Consider hiring a pro to help you develop the system in the first place, it will save you a significant amount of time, money and aggravation. Role, hierarchical and conversational intranets all work. Some are implemented better than others. Maintain your ontology You must build updating the intranet and your system for description into succession planning, organizational shuffles, etc. So many people forget this, it's not even a joke anymore. Have someone directly responsible for the ontology and content Personal responsibility works, someone should be directly responsible for (nagging/cajoling) ensuring that content is updated. This isn't a joke position, or something to set a junior associate to work on. They need the C-level teeth and the people skills (or the clear backing of such) to keep this information current. This is critical in the initial stages of your implementation. Build organization and description into your basic policies Initial implementations of intranets are painful. You're going to be dealing with a lot of opposition, and a fair amount of griping. While your C-level, or C-level supported champion is going around enforcing/cajoling/ensuring that content is updated, the rest of the managers should be building 'Update the Intranet' into every process that is impacted. After a little while it will just be a part of the job. Plan your permissions structure You want the experience of using the intranet to fade into the background of work. Do not forget about permission levels, access and workflows. Map them out in advance and don't launch until this is solved. If you interfere with people's workflow and your product sucks, then they won't use the intranet. The final goal is to have an intranet that is just a part of the daily routine. Implementation beats ideas every time