★What comes next in enterprise social networks and Intranets?Products like Yammer and Salesforce Chatter are still in their infancy. What will come next? What are the issues the existing problems do not solve well?
(Disclaimer:  I am a founder of a startup that offers an ESN as a product.  Assume what you will about the extent to which that may bias my answer here). What comes next for Enterprise Social Networks?  Well...  In our case, we have taken the ESN concept and gone a few steps further by tying the ESN right into the ESB/SOA infrastructure to support Business Event Subscriptions right in your "news feed", and offer BPM integration to surface workflow items into your feed as well.  We're also beginning to incorporate event correlation and Semantic Web and Machine Learning technologies to do concept extraction, and clustering and classification, on the data that flows into the ESN, so we can easily show you context around documents, events, and people, to help "connect the dots" and turn information into actionable knowledge. Ultimately, the confluence of "BPM", and "Knowledge Management" is where a lot of the new value add is going to come from.  Why?  Well, think about it... what is the purpose of firm?  Generally, to achieve some goal, like making a profit.  How does it do that? By executing one or more processes to transform inputs into outputs.  So we know that process is important and that optimizing processes is crucial... but we also know that overly rigid processes are limiting and restrictive, hence the new focus on "Social BPM".  Individual users need to be empowered to modify processes and create new processes as needed.  But what do users need to support best decision making, when reforming processes, or processing exception states in pre-defined processes, or when creating new processes? They need knowledge.  So, in the end, KM and BPM have to begin to unite... and an ESN, with its role in routing knowledge and information, is a crucial bit of infrastructure in organizations that are pushing the boundaries of this synergy between BPM and KM.