★What are the best practices to launch a social intranet?I would like to know what are the most important things we should consider when launching a new social intranet.
Social tools are complex. You cannot hope to succeed by the complicated approach of establishing needs in advance and developing something you believe meets them. Instead you need to learn by experimenting, observing and improving them. Interview or survey people and they will tell you what they think you want to hear (because they want to help you), so that will have limited value. At most, ask people what problems they have while working and what information they need to do their job that they have difficulty obtaining. A better option is to give people prototypes, observe and learn from their behaviour. Feed what you learn back into the development process. Keep the development cycles short so people get used to continual improvements. To start, find out who the early adopters are in your organisation - particularly the people who use social tools externally - and talk to them about your plans. These people like to try out new things, will give you useful feedback and help you establish your tools as you develop them. The waverers will wait to see what happens, usually following the early adopters as momentum increases, while laggards may come aboard eventually. Choose your measures of success carefully. Social systems are subject to the Pareto Principle, not bell curve distributions. There is little use in measuring the "average number of posts/updates" or similar. A small number of your population will post a lot. Most will post very little or not at all. Don't attempt to over-manage the system. Be as open as possible and trust people. Remind them when they post that they are responsible for the content they post. Encourage the intranet community to self-police by including "complain about this post" buttons. Remove as many barriers to entry as you can. Don't make people send requests to create blogs or online communities. Most will "fail", but those which succeed will appear spectacular by comparison. If you are not in IT, you may encounter resistance from people who believe you are encroaching on their territory. If you are in IT, you will likely encounter greater cynicism from the rest of the organisation who will expect you to focus on the technology to the exclusion of wider cultural issues. Mitigate against this by forming a cross-functional group to guide the project. Different areas of the business will likely have different needs. Listening to these differing viewpoints gives you a broader view which may lead you to prioritise differently. Don't set high expectations. Vendors are keen to tell you social tools will revolutionise your organisation. They won't. Once you start speaking to your organisation like a vendor, you risk losing credibility if anyone perceives you as having failed. Instead, make sure people understand you are experimenting with new ways of communicating and collaborating to learn whether they have any value for your organisation. If everyone thinks they're using beta versions of your tools, they will be more forgiving.