★What is important to consider when designing an intranet for a large company?I am helping my company audit our internal web site so we can have a more efficient system. I would like to know what other companies are doing that works.
Big question with many different levels.  Are you talking about in general, technology, software?  What I have written below really applies to architecting any mission critical type systems. Here are some questions that you should answer and some general guidelines: What applications do you wish to provide? Company information, a Wiki, an email portal, department forums, HR access, etc?  Will all applications run on the same OSes?  This will determine in large part your backend architecture and how homogenous it is.  Obviously it will be much easier to maintain if all applications run on the same OS, version, database, and Web server.   You also wouldn't want multiple versions of middleware if you could help it. Will you be granting access just from the company LAN or via VPN or are you going to have a Web portal that allows employees to log in?  Best practices dictate that you plan your security for the "worst case", meaning anyone on the Internet could attempt to gain access.  If you don't put security in place each step of the way, it will be a huge (and difficult task) later on. For flexibility, availability, and scalability, use N-tiers, load balancing, and redundancy.  IOW, put a load balancer in front of your Web access and have multiple web servers that interface with multiple middleware servers that interface with multiple database servers.  The rule should be that there are at least 2 of everything from the start.  If architected to work across N servers and N tiers from the beginning, it is much easier to scale later on. Put change management practices in place.  Before any changes are made to hardware or software, the change procedure should be documented.  Part of the documentation must include a "back out" plan that allows you go back to the way the system was before you started making the change, in case things go horribly wrong.  I could probably go on for a while, and have no idea what size operation you are representing, but if you need a company Intranet I have to assume that you have a large enough group of employees to make the endeavor worthwhile. Good luck! Rick Bross