★What is the most all-inclusive internally-focused social media/intranet/collaboration and knowledge management platform on the market today?
Okey so lets try to sum your wishes down. BTW, also representing a product, but have worked in a lot of project implementing social collaboration with all knowledge that comes with that.  You want a solution that needs to have all of this: the power of an intranet a knowledge base(the power of a really great intranet) a social network(the power of a really great intranet) document sharing(the power of a really great intranet) an indexed and searchable wiki(the power of a really great intranet) reporting and metrics dashboard enterprise search(the power of a really great intranet) forums and or workspaces for team/community groups with Facebook-like timelines Employee profile and expertise library, some Business Intelligence functions for data lookups(the power of a really great intranet) Display (something like Excel Services, Visio Services and Chart Services in SharePoint) Company news feeds(the power of an intranet)Thats a great list, in my mind. If you then would add: task management project management spaces for knowledge sharing, access on demand or by interest/role document management, not just sharing but collaborationYou would have Social Collaboration for Projects and Teams | Kona.com Built by ERP Software, Cloud & Business Resource Planning Solutions to support our clients in project intensive organisation to fit their world. We dont have - reporting and metrics dashboard Noone has ever asked for that after starting to use the solution. I agree in full with Rachel Berry in: "My final word of advice: even the 'best of breed' solution is worthless if people don't use it. The hard work of enterprise social networks begins after the launch. I'd spend at least as much time planning for how you're going to integrate the platform into the way work gets done at your company as in choosing the tools." I would just add MORE time to executing implementation and training, and focus needs to be purpose and what you want the employee to do. Gartner says 90% of all social collaboration initiative fails due to lack of purpose. Being involved in projects of this sort in larger organisations it comes down to: How you roll it out, ties together with user adaption. You need a strategy. User experience(not even on your list) BTW, purpose will help that alot. Containing all you need to work day to day. Not 3 solutions for the same company, that sometimes overlap, then you will have silos in the information flow. Hope this was of help! Best regards Sara