★What is best of Wiki or SharePoint for an intranet, and why?
SharePoint has wikis, both as a library template and as a site template. So, really, this isn't an either-or situation per se. I think what's more important to understand is your content and target audiences. This means contemplating your information architecture (how you're organizing content, navigation, depth of site, etc.) and content management (what kinds of content will be shared and when, who's allowed to administer/contribute/read the site and its components, document retention policies, etc.) in the context of your company/industry/geopolitical/financial/regulatory/technology/etc situation. And these things should be considered from the perspective of Now and The Future (e.g., Do you need scalability? Can you rollout in phases/modules?) Once you understand your needs/constraints, it becomes easier to figure out what are your options and, of those options, what makes the most sense. That said, wikis can be good for quick and easy sharing of content. They are generally easy to update. Most of the time I think they are used as a collaborative space for content, meaning that many people have contribute rights. I've seen wikis used to document the work and instructions for interns and for documenting operating procedures (non-regulated environment). SharePoint, as a broader tool, offers a lot of ways to share information within the same collection of sites. SharePoint's other templates and features, like regular Document Libraries and Lists, are also a great way to organize and disseminate content. Typically I've seen these objects implemented with different permission levels granted to different audiences. As with many platforms, there are usually multiple ways of accomplishing a given task or objective in SharePoint. I've worked places where the Intranet, with a capital 'I', was a collection of SharePoints, collaboration sites, and traditional web pages unified by Search and some portal pages. There is no one-size-fits-all answer to your question, and you may find that a bundled solution is what you need.