Will Google+ eventually replace Gmail or webmail?I will surely use Google+ more if it allows file sharing.
Very good question and you are right! Why not? Hasn't the paradigm of email, close to having run its course? Let us analyze the functions of an email and see how close we are to replacing its functionality with a new tool. For the sake of argument let us say this tool is G+ (and I am not saying G+ is the tool that can replace email, but just using it to illustrate my point). Communicate one on one, or one to many asynchronously: You can do this with G+. Communicate one on one - post a message and share with a circle of one. Communicate one to many - post a message and share with a circle of many. Asynchronously - Post a message and wait for the "postees" to read & respond. Attach files: Missing today with G+ and precisely what the questioner her(him?)self is asking for as a G+ feature. To an extent you can do this with G+ if your file were on Google Docs. Then the advantage is that versus sending your document to and fro with changes, review comments et al, you can collaborate on it online. Search, Archival, Contact book: All available Get notifications and receive mails from various subscription, bank/cc statements, bills etc: What's to stop these from a new category of input stream items to be created by google on G+ to subsume this use case? You still signup at vendor/subscription sites using your gmail ID, but they get redirected to your G+ input stream. Google needs to build in a feature to add "rules" to input stream to help you categorize automatically. Folders/Labels to organize the mail: See above. Need a creation of "category" concept, rule creation functionality to enable this. So as you can see "theoretically" G+ is almost there in terms of ability to take over. As far as "practicality" - well users need to become comfortable with the new paradigm and make a switch. The G+ UI needs to improve to make stuff even more intuitive for a gmail user to switch. But most importantly unless all the people you interact with also become ready to embrace G+ in place of gmail, you cannot achieve a total transition. 