Why aren't graph databases more popular?Graphs seem like a really natural way to express and query data in many domains.
I have a few takes to this question. One, as Benoit says in his answer is adoption. However, I would like to summarise them in the following way: Mindset. I believe that most potential Graph Database (GDB) users have a Relational mindset. This is a drawback for the GDB but at the same time, this is a challenge for vendors. Making the trasition easier for users should be the main objective for vendors in the future years. Substitution. Most of the times, end users believe that one should use one single Database in their projects. I strongly believe that GDBs have to be an analytic complement to the business and not a substitute for any data management paradigm. Thus, each data management solution has its own niche. When users overcome this concept, GDBs will be understood better. Programming ease. GDBs are not easy to programe, basically because there is not a standard languge for them, and users have to use APIs. Vendors are doing an effort in this and I believe that, sooner or later, a standard will be adopted through some neutral organisation like World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Understanding. The use and meaning of GDBs in an industry/use-case environment is not easy. Humans are used to lists and aggregates (as in the relational model), and GDBs imply relationships among entities and complex relationship analytics. This transition will certainly be an important aspect to approach in the future, not only from the conceptual point of view, but from the visual point of view (see next point). Visual tools. The need for visual paradigms that do not damage the understanding of GDBs' results needs to be solved urgently. Companies like Linkurious, Tom Sawyer will play an important role in this.In general, I would say that products like Sparksee, Neo4j or OrientDB have teams that are doing a huge effort to make GDBs more undrestandable and solve the issues explained above. The market will have to respond to those efforts and prove the expectations we have on GDBs. 