What are some topics/fields in physics that aren't traditionally taught in the undergraduate physics curriculum but are worth learning/really cool?
Analytic approximation techniques This is more of a math topic, but relevant to physics.  Learning how to construct reasonable analytic approximations for an intractable problem, rather than immediately plugging it into your favorite mathematical software for a numerical approximation, is an excellent way to build intuition for how systems will behave in different limits.  I was lucky to have a professor that taught this, but it wasn't standard in our curriculum.  Sure, the basics of Taylor series are taught in calculus classes, and Fourier series show up in various places.  But it's worth spending some time on the concept of approximation and how to do it correctly. Numerical analysis Speaking of approximations and your favorite mathematical software: I think it would be worthwhile for any physics student to learn a little of the theory behind numerical solutions.  Unless you happen to have a copy of the legendary Mathemagica (TM) package, your computer does not invoke eldritch powers to provide a nice curve that always almost exactly solves the differential equation you entered.  Instead it churns through a lot of boring calculations to produce an answer that, given certain assumptions, will be approximately correct.  Understanding a bit about what's going on under the hood gives someone a better chance of recognizing the rare circumstances when their computer is lying to them.   Edit: I came across a page with some interesting real-world examples of what happens when people don't pay attention to numerical analysis: Some disasters attributable to bad numerical computing Non-linear dymanics (chaos theory) Speaking of situations where a numerical solution might fail... chaos!   Discovered when the same deterministic equations produced wildly different results on different computers (due to minor differences in how they rounded numbers), non-linear dynamics studies problems where the behavior of the system can change drastically with small changes in the initial conditions.  Non-linear dynamics is not in the standard requirements of a physics degree, but is accessible at the  undergraduate level.  It's full of nifty-looking diagrams and graphs.  Escaped dinosaurs are strictly optional. Various surprisingly difficult problems in the physics of everyday objects When people imagine cutting edge physics they think of particle accelerators or black holes or other exotic phenomena.  I think it's pretty cool that there's still work being done in understanding simple everyday systems like salt in a salt shaker (granular dynamics) or the crumpling of a paper ball (thin sheets) or the spatter of water droplets landing on your counter top (fluid dynamics).  Every physics student should be exposed to the existence of topics like these, though studying the details of the theories and math models involved is optional. Updated 27 Sep 2014 • View Upvotes