Who is Airbnb's biggest competition?Who are Airbnb's largest competitors?
I know what I will say may sounds weird, but I would say that right now, in USA there is no competitor. I have my property advertised in: Airbnb iStopOver Wimdu 9Flats Homeaway Localo Roomorama Housetrip I almost started with all them on the same time. The difference is only up to 5 days. My property is in Orlando, Florida, USA. In 24 months, I hve haven: 105bookings with Airbnb 1 with Roomorama 0 with with the others Even the quantity of messages received between them are very different: 307 users sent me messages with Airbnb 35 users sent me messages with Roomorama 21 users sent me messages with Housetrip 3 users sent me messages with iStopOver 0 users sent me message with the others The price is the same, the availability calendar is the same, the photos are the same (unless the verifies photos). Everything is the same. But as you can see, there is a huge difference of performance. I checked how many rentals were done in Orlando, where I have a  property, and the number, summing all the rentals done by Roomorama so  far is 31 (December 31st 2012), including my unique rental done over there. This number was almost half of the number that I had myself with Airbnb in that time!!! Maybe, what I said in the beginning of this message is wrong. There is one competitor to Airbnb: Itself. If Airbnb starts to provide bad services or decrease the quality  and the quantity of the features that right now are being provided, it may push the customers to other sites. In beginning, the 24/7 support they had more "power" (at least it is my personal feeling). Now they are forwarding some requests to level 2 and some issues that in the past was able to solve in the same call or transfer to the correct departments or person now it is being "escalated" to the correct support team. This is not jeopardizing the quality of the the service so far, but if the trend is kept, the other may have a room to increase. In beginning, the photos taken by Airbnb photographers were uploaded to the the listing in just 2 or 3 days after taken. Now it is taken up to 3 weeks. In beginning, they used to offer the "Verify Address" and they stopped now. They also reward some hosts with a SuperHost status, but this is no longer available for new application. In both cases Airbnb is no longer accepting new application and I think it is unfair with new users. In beginning, they used to call to followup for a request/ticket open. Now they only send an email. I think a phone call is much better and all the conversation could be recorded and kept with the history of the request, at the same way that is done with the messages. However, a lot things happened since the beginning to now. The "Call this guest" feature is something that was implement and it is really cool. That is help to the guest verify his/her phone number. The statics  (plot)  inside "Manage List" has been improved. Airbnb can be classified as a vacation rental site or as hotel alternative or whatever you want. In my opinion the classification does not matter. The most important thing is his performance to bring rentals to the owners and offers good stays to the guests with a good price/quality ratio. So, the big challenge, in my opinion, is not bit the competitor is to keep the leadership alone, because there is no competitor for USA market. But if Airbnb decrease the quality, I think they will loose a huge market very fast. Updated 15 Aug 2013 • View Upvotes