What will prevent Quora from experiencing the same less-than-spectacular fate as FriendFeed, as they seem to share some commonalities around origin, demographic of user base and nature of user interaction at this phase?This is a follow-up question to Why did the FriendFeed team fail to build a lasting product / community?. Also a follow-up question to Does anyone still use FriendFeed? Why?
I never warmed to Friendfeed, primarily because it seemed dominated by outsized personalities and their acolytes. As I wrote in Jan 2009 in Bottom Feeding Off Friendfeed (http://www.stoweboyd.com/post/82... It may also be that the benefits of Friendfeed only accrue to very popular people — like Gray and Scoble — who have dozens or hundreds of acolytes who respond to their every post with a barrage of commentary. I will also suggest that those who are very active followers of those two and their ilk may also get a secondary, real and significant benefit as well. But the average schmoe, wandering around in Friendfeedland, having not perfected either massive social popularity or the followership model will try the service out and quickly leave never to return because there is no ‘it’ to get for them. There is no there there, as Gertrude Stein famously said of Oakland. The difference with Quora seems to be the thematic approach. Instead of personalities dominating, in Quora issues dominate. This has the direct effect of drawing deeply knowledgeable people to jump into Quora discussions -- like having the founder of a startup answer questions about the company -- which reminds me of the Woody Allen bit from Annie Hall, when he's drawn into a discussion with a bombastic idiot at a cocktail party about Marshall McLuhan, and Allen pulls McLuhan out of thin air to refute the blowhard. The dominant motif in Quora is the spirit of inquiry, a direct rejection of being a fan boy of highly popular media personalities. Quora is less like talk radio, where Howard Stern holds court on a dozen topics each show, and much more like reading -- and participating with -- the New Yorker or the Atlantic, where a diverse set of leading thinkers address the issues of the day. 