Could anyone have anticipated that John Roberts would be somewhat more centrist than expected?Some conservatives are criticizing the Roberts pick in hindsight, but based on his pre-appointment track record, could anyone have guessed that he'd have turned out this way? Did any conservatives express misgivings at the time?
Yes, given the blank slate nature of his career at that point. Notably, Ann Coulter nailed it ten years ago when Roberts was nominated. See Love Her Or Hate Her, Ann Coulter Warned Us About John Roberts 10 Years Ago. Key excerpts from her July 2005 blog post (really worth reading): SOUTER IN ROBERTS' CLOTHING . . . So all we know about him [Roberts] for sure is that he can't dance and he probably doesn't know who Jay-Z is. Other than that, he is a blank slate. Tabula rasa. Big zippo. Nada. Oh, yeah ... We also know he's argued cases before the Supreme Court. Big deal; so has Larry Flynt's attorney. But unfortunately, other than that that, we don't know much about John Roberts. Stealth nominees have never turned out to be a pleasant surprise for conservatives. Never. Not ever. It means absolutely nothing that NARAL and Planned Parenthood attack him: They also attacked Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony Kennedy and David Hackett Souter. The only way a Supreme Court nominee could win the approval of NARAL and Planned Parenthood would be to actually perform an abortion during his confirmation hearing, live, on camera, and preferably a partial-birth one. It means nothing that Roberts wrote briefs arguing for the repeal of Roe v. Wade when he worked for Republican administrations. He was arguing on behalf of his client, the United States of America. And it makes no difference that conservatives in the White House are assuring us Roberts can be trusted. We got the exact same assurances from officials working for the last president Bush about David Hackett Souter. I believe their exact words were, "Read our lips; Souter's a reliable conservative." Finally, let's ponder the fact that Roberts has gone through 50 years on this planet without ever saying anything controversial. That's just unnatural. It's especially unnatural for someone who is smart, and there's no question but that Roberts is smart. If a smart and accomplished person goes this long without expressing an opinion, he'd better be pursuing the Miss America title. Apparently, Roberts decided early on that he wanted to be on the Supreme Court and that the way to do that was not to express a personal opinion on anything to anybody ever. It's as if he is from some space alien sleeper cell. Maybe the space aliens are trying to help us, but I wish we knew that. If the Senate were in Democrat hands, Roberts would be perfect. But why on earth would Bush waste a nomination on a person who is a complete blank slate when we have a majority in the Senate! We also have a majority in the House, state legislatures, state governorships, and have won five of the last seven presidential elections -- seven of the last 10! We're the Harlem Globetrotters now. Why do we have to play like we're the Washington Generals every week? Conservatism is sweeping the nation, we have a fully functioning alternative media, we're ticked off and ready to avenge Robert Bork ... and Bush nominates a Rorschach blot. 