Could anyone have anticipated that John Roberts would be somewhat more centrist than expected?Some conservatives are criticizing the Roberts pick in hindsight, but based on his pre-appointment track record, could anyone have guessed that he'd have turned out this way? Did any conservatives express misgivings at the time?
He's actually been far more of an activist conservative than expected. As Joshua Engel noted in his answer, he was portrayed as a "fair conservative who would try to follow the law rather than his ideology," which was important to get him confirmed since he was replacing Justice O' Connor, a moderate Conservative (and formerly a crucial swing vote between the liberal and conservative justices). While no one expected him to be liberal in any way, he's not been the jurist he proclaimed himself to be. He's shown himself to be far more ideological than the moderate he pretended to be to get the job. In his confirmation hearings, he claimed he'd be like a neutral umpire, simply calling balls and strikes. He also said too many cases were being decided with narrow majorities and that he would find broader consensus with narrower, less sweeping rulings that avoid expanding the cases before the court any further than truly necessary. He has not lived up to these promises at all and has gone to the extreme opposite of every principle laid out above. Some conservatives are unhappy with a handful of his rulings where he didn't go as far as some of the other arch conservatives on the court, but that does not make him centrist. He is the Chief Justice and perhaps at least slightly concerned with the perceived integrity of the judicial branch, so occasionally he has to hold back the conservative horses just a bit and save them from themselves, as some have put it. For those hoping for the Republican preferred outcomes, fear not, the court has been shifting farther and farther to the right for decades. When Justice John Paul Stevens was appointed by Republican President Gerald Ford in 1975, he was one of the more conservative members of the court. By the time he retired, he was the leader of the liberals. Stevens explained, "Including myself, every judge who's been appointed to the court since Lewis Powell in 1971 has been more conservative than his or her predecessor, except maybe Justice Ginsburg." The trend has not just continued under Roberts, but drastically accelerated in its rightward swing. The Roberts Court is considered even more conservative than the Rehnquist Court that preceded it, and that's the Court that gave us the partisan Bush v. Gore ruling (and had the gall to declare that it can't be cited as a precedent for lower courts to follow in future cases). Many close observers of the court believe this to be one of the most conservative Supreme Courts in modern history and some research supports that it is the most conservative since at least 1937. By conservative, we mean supporting Republican policies, we don't mean conservative in scope. They've happily overturned "liberal laws," reversed precedents, broadened rulings beyond the issues at hand, accepted cases that were still being addressed by lower courts, and produced a great many hugely consequential 5-4 rulings. You can pretty reliably predict which way the justices will vote most of the time. If there's a pro-business side to a case, Roberts is nearly always on it. If there's a preferred Republican outcome, Roberts is generally on it if there's a leg to stand on. You can't always predict how far the ruling will go, but that's a different question. When Chief Justice Roberts doesn't vote with the arch conservatives, which is more the exception, it's often a weaker case for them. Other times he votes with them but does not go as far as they'd like. He's not as predictably far right on every case as Scalia, Thomas, and Alito, but he's only a half step away from them. Together, they've had a tremendously conservative impact on the country on a huge array of issues, not only on the big cases that make front page news, but on all the others that chip away at the previous law and lay the groundwork for bigger changes later. The Roberts Court has given conservative victories on major issues like gun control (District of Columbia v. Heller, McDonald v. Chicago), campaign finance (Citizens United v. FEC, McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission), and abortion (Gonzales v. Carhart -- "the first time the Court has allowed a ban on any type of abortion since 1973"), to name a few. Conservatives around the country should be grateful for Roberts. He's like a circuit breaker or emergency release valve on a supercharged conservative power plant that churns out conservative ruling after conservative ruling (with the occasional exception when Justice Kennedy votes with the more liberal justices). On the Affordable Care Act, some conservatives were secretly relieved it was upheld each time, as they'd be like the proverbial dog who finally caught the car. For the Court to maintain the smallest degree of credibility, he must occasionally disappoint Republicans. To call John Roberts a centrist because he occasionally doesn't vote with the arch conservatives is to ignore the rest of his record. To call John Roberts even "somewhat more centrist than expected" is to ignore both his record of activist conservative jurisprudence and his own declarations of neutrality when he was up for the job 10 years ago. Updated 1 Jul • View Upvotes