Linguistic Relativity: If language influences thinking, what is the "best" language to complement English?
Well as I recall this kind of question was asked a lot in my University days.  I actually asked it and recall the simple answer: The answer I heard again and again was essentially that there are four major languages taught because of their relationship to English: 1. French is the greatest source of words, advanced structures and cultural development in to English.  French is a favorite with English majors.  If you want to write better English learning French is good. 2. German is the language most like the root of English.  If you want to more solidly grasp the grammar and core words of English, say for linguistics or history, German is good.  So if you are studying English history and may read old English or study linguistics around English German is great. 3. Latin is the language that established how a big language used by many different people in a vast area would work.  In Latin the first forms of grammar and early word roots that English shares with all European family of languages.  Latin would be perhaps better than German if you interest is European history and language, viewing English as part of a larger project. 4. Greek, because in Greek our core framework of how western society thinks was first constructed.  Greek is probably the ultimate westerns deep thinker language.  Our concepts of drama, politics, law, grammar and philosophy were all first written in Greek. On my own I expanded Sanskrit since which is the mother of Indo-European languages.  There are also a lot of amazing things written in Sanskrit but the problem for someone interested in English is that not until the Raj and British Empire was England aware of the wealth of Indian culture, and even then they were mostly dismissive, so you won't find a lot of intellectual direct influences from Indian classical culture and English, while you will find tonnes in Latin and French.  So if you really learn Sanskrit you get insight in to the formal grounding of the English and all other languages of Europe, but not much insight in to how the content of English thinking evolved. 