Linguistic Relativity: If language influences thinking, what is the "best" language to complement English?
This is a funny question! I would like to propose a couple of contenders: Chinese (Mandarin or Cantonese is fine): Studies have found that doing math is more intuitive in Chinese than English for a variety of reasons. Firstly, counting in English is not intuitive. After the numbers 1-10, we have new names like "eleven" and "twelve", etc. In Chinese, eleven is literally ten-one (twenty is two ten and so on). Young children can count up to one hundred in Chinese much more quickly than can English speaking children. Also, each number from 1-10 is only one syllable, making number terms much shorter than their English counterparts in many cases (for example, 27 is 4 syllables in English, 3 in Chinese; or 5 English syllables in 208 vs. 3 in Chinese). This difference does, indeed, make a difference because you can hold more numbers in your head at a time. Secondly, fractions, which are one of the most difficult mathematical concepts for American students to grasp, are expressed much more intuitively in Chinese as well. In English, we say "three-fourths" to mean 3/4. In Chinese, it's literally, "out of four, take three parts", making the concept simple and easily understandable. International tests have shown that Chinese students in Chinese speaking environments perform much better on fraction sections of the test than do English speaking American students. (With a bit of shame, a link: http://www.gladwell.com/outliers...) Russian: Studies have found that because Russian speakers have two separate terms for light blues and dark blues (and no common term that encompasses all of the colors an English speaker would call "blue") they are better able to discriminate between different shades of blue. (http://www-psych.stanford.edu/~l...) (How great of a parlor trick it would make to distinguish between shades of blue faster than all of the other English speakers present!) Pormpuraaw (aboriginal Australian): This language does not have equivalent terms for "left" and "right" so they rely on cardinal directions (i.e., east, west, etc) instead. Thus, no more confusing directions if you're a speaker of Pormpuraaw! No more, "So, if you're coming from San Jose, it's going to be on the left but if you're coming from Mountain View, the north." Even better -- no more awkward, "To your left! No, YOUR left! No, ok, my left!"s while trying to bike past people :) (Note: Finnish also does this if you're interested in a less obscure language). (http://pss.sagepub.com/content/2...) Updated 27 Jul 2011 • View Upvotes