Could anyone have anticipated that John Roberts would be somewhat more centrist than expected?Some conservatives are criticizing the Roberts pick in hindsight, but based on his pre-appointment track record, could anyone have guessed that he'd have turned out this way? Did any conservatives express misgivings at the time?
Although conservatives are obviously disappointed with some of Chief Justice Roberts's recent opinions, I don't think we can assume that  Roberts is slowly becoming Souter 2.0.  It's important to remember, for example, that even two years ago, most analysis of Roberts was along the lines of Ross Cohen's response, i.e., that Roberts was in fact far more conservative than he presented himself to be during his confirmation hearings, and was moving the Court in a strongly rightward direction not seen since the early 20th century.  Numerous decisions penned by Roberts himself, such as Shelby County v. Holder (striking down Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act) have been unquestionably conservative.  A couple of controversial decisions on the Affordable Care Act, and now he's a bleeding heart?  I think that's overselling things a bit. But that being said, absolutely there was conservative trepidation about Roberts during his confirmation proceedings:  specifically, Roberts was sold as something of a "stealth candidate" as opposed to a proven conservative.  Roberts had all the right bona fides--Harvard valedictorian, law review, great clerkships, a successful Supreme Court litigation practice, etc.--with none of the risk factors for confirmation, such as a long record of written opinions or law review articles that could be mined for controversial views by Democratic senators, advocacy/membership in right-wing groups, etc.  The lack of record cut both ways, making Roberts something of a "mystery box": it could be the case that Roberts was ultra-right-wing and kept a low profile in the hope of easily becoming a federal judge someday (given his outstanding academic record, he had reason to assume he would one day get the nod), but it was equally possible that Roberts had a limited record because he wasn't a "drink the Kool Aid" kind of conservative and was more interested in his corporate practice.  The hope in the Bush administration was that Republicans would get another reliable conservative on the order of Scalia or Thomas in the packaging of a Sandra Day O'Connor.  But of course, the last time the Republicans played the "stealth candidate" card, they wound up with David Souter, a centrist who largely voted with the liberal bloc on the Court. I wouldn't put things quite the same way Nicholas Moyne does, although I do like the "strange cat" line--Roberts is only 10 years into what is likely to be a long stay on the Court, and while I think it's clear that he's solidly right-of-center, he hasn't developed the kind of clear judicial philosophy of a Scalia or Thomas.  He therefore remains something of a mystery. 