Could anyone have anticipated that John Roberts would be somewhat more centrist than expected?Some conservatives are criticizing the Roberts pick in hindsight, but based on his pre-appointment track record, could anyone have guessed that he'd have turned out this way? Did any conservatives express misgivings at the time?
Not only could it be anticipated, it was. He had been presented at the time as being a fair conservative who would try to follow the law rather than his ideology. Of course, they all say that. They all say that they're coming at things with an open mind, even if that's an obvious pants-on-fire lie. But it was a necessary bit of political wheeling-and-dealing at the time. He was originally nominated to replace Sandra Day O'Connor, a fairly moderate justice nominated by Reagan. Then Rehnquist retired, and it became a significant political matter. The Democrats had enough votes to filibuster the nominee. (Actual filibusters are rare, but that's only because the flags are flown before the nominations are made, and candidates likely to be filibustered are nixed.) Compare it to Samuel Alito, who was well known to be a conservative in the mode of Justice Scalia. He was widely called "Scalito" even at the time: You Say Scalito, I Say Alito Roberts' views were not as well known, and that's because he wasn't the rabid ideologue that Alito was. He was known for doing the kind of backroom, lawyer-to-lawyer deals that are the primary way the law is handled. (It doesn't really happen in courtrooms. That's practically just for show.) A few quotes at the time: "This kind of advocacy can be an academic exercise, but John always wanted to make sure he could explain his arguments in real-world terms," says Gregory Garre, who worked for Roberts at Hogan & Hartson and is now the firm's top appellate lawyer. "He's not the kind of guy who makes up his mind right away. He goes through cases brick by brick." Roberts Cultivated An Audience With Justices for Years Bush Chooses Roberts for Court Bush could only shift the balance of the court so far before Democrats would balk. Roberts was just enough to the right of O'Connor to be perfect for the job. He could go further to the right to replace Rehnquist, but the Democrats would be harder pressed to support that in the top job. So Roberts got moved to Chief (you really want somebody younger, to cement your legacy, and besides, there was no way the Democrats would tolerate Scalia or Thomas) and Alito for the next one. So Roberts has turned out pretty much as everybody in Washington expected at the time. People seem to forget that this is a lawyers' town, and they never ask a question they don't already know the answer to. They knew when he was put up that he was going to be quite conservative but not the right-wing ideologue that conservative pundits hoped for and liberal pundits feared. Because pundits are always talking about the most exciting thing, rather than the actual dull, plodding business of running a country. The people who actually pay attention to running the country already had a pretty good idea how it was going to fall out. There are always surprises, and people do change, but nothing Roberts has said has come as much of a surprise. 