If complex numbers are imaginary, then what is their significance in the real world? Why should we study complex numbers?
Why "should" "we" learn about complex numbers? Well, who's "we"? I don't pretend that everyone will strongly benefit from learning complex numbers. Not everyone strongly benefits from learning algebra. Anyway, I'll tell you one small way that I benefited (as a math student) from learning about complex numbers: When I took trigonometry, I wasn't the sort of person who could easily memorize angle-sum formulas, etc. But once I learned Euler's formula, it became easy for me to derive them whenever I needed them. Now I do know most of the basic formulas by heart, partly because Euler's formula gave me a deeper understanding of them. Anyway, that's not applicable to everyone, not particularly exciting either. I could also state: The study of complex numbers gives us a deeper understanding of both algebra and calculus. In particular, we begin to see a strong connection between between plane geometry and the algebra of complex numbers. For instance, Euler's formula gave Gauss an algebraic method for developing the compass-and-straightedge construction of a regular Heptadecagon, which geometers had failed to do by traditional methods for over 2,000 years. If you have some calculus under your belt, please see Residue theorem for two examples of what a little knowledge of complex analysis can do. The Riemann hypothesis is a conjecture in complex analysis that, if proven, would have huge implications in other branches of mathematics. The Wikipedia article has plenty of details. There's a lot more out there. In short, for a mathematician, learning about complex numbers helps you see parts of the proverbial glacier that are beneath the surface. It gives you a broader, more empowering view of real numbers. If you think that applications in electrical engineering might be more interesting, find a for-realz EE and send them an A2A. Btw, don't let the word "imaginary" trouble you. Many terms in mathematics are not as meaningful as they seem. If you take a course in abstract algebra, you may find yourself wondering why a "group" is called a "group", why a "ring" is called a "ring", why a "field" is called a "field", etc. What makes a group more group-y than a ring? What is so round about a ring, and what is so field-y about a ring having commutative multiplication and containing a reciprocal for each of its nonzero elements? There is no particularly strong reason for these terms, and whatever they evoke in a typical English speaker's imagination should usually be ignored. 