How do "I intend on using.." and "I intend to use..." differ?
Language changes and evolves so much. 'Intend to' is the correct term. I intend to answer this question. I intend to go to bed, but Quora is like a magnet to my brain and shield to my sleep. But in conversation, anyone can say: 'Intend on'. As long as the meaning is clear and no-one gets physically hurt, it is absolutely fine. 'She intends on going to the cinema with him, but he doesn't want to watch a chick flick' 'He intends on applying, but doesn't have the nerve.' Maybe in a few years, 'intend to' will have disappeared and 'intend on' will be the norm. When I was little, everything was 'up' to me. It was 'up' to me to get to school, and 'up' to me to do my homework. Now I am older, (at least in the UK), everything is 'down' to me. My work performance is 'down' to me. My mortgage payments and bill payments are 'down' to me. No-one says 'up' any more. I miss that. EDIT: Ah ha! Now I read to the end of your question details, and I see the real reason why you have asked the question. Yes, you are correct. 'Intend to' is the correct version of the usage. The ideal answer here would be to say that Quora is an evolving place. When I was younger (a few months ago) I 'followed' questions and my searches led me to meaningful places. Quora Content Review and Quora question editors were few and far between and questions could rest in comfort, undisturbed for many days. Now I am older (at least in the UK), I once again 'follow' questions (although it was not always thus: Introducing Re-Ask (and Follow is Back) by Adrien Lucas Ecoffet on The Quora Blog) and almost every question I ask gets 'fixed' by Quora Content Review - sometimes until they are unrecognisable as anything my own brain would want to know. They are like the unwanted plastic surgeons of 'online' giving us trout pouts and nose jobs where we only want knowledge and attention. One day, I am sure, they will realise that searches need meaningful results and some questions are better left alone - not all, but some. 