Why are you a theist?
Though I closely relate myself to being a pantheist I will still go ahead and answer for why I am a theist . My answer may reflect a Hindu theist perspective  but I try to keep it a bit low as I have some other interesting points to make. Say for e.g. just before an exam you wished your friend to do well . In true sense your wish won't alter anything in any way for him to do any better in exam apart from boosting his confidence. Same goes with praying. Some prefer to go to a temple/church to pray. Some pray wherever they are but what exactly is happening in this scenario? They are motivating themselves by doing a ritual (prayer) to a person (God). I don't see any wrong in doing so and in any ritual for that matter if that doesn't harm anyone. I always believed in the above manner and felt solaced but very soon my inquisitiveness grew and I have had a serious question to answer 'Is the so called GOD person only a creation of mind to find solace and nothing much?'. How can I be sure?? Though I had some spectacular coincidences in my life but still I cannot reason my mind for I can shrug it off as a mere coincidence. I went on asking so many people, read some scriptures, studied various philosophies which are both contradicting and complementing. It did give a logical explanation to my mind that a higher power may exist. For reference I will quote two reasons below which seems logically plausible The first one is from Bhagavad_Gita. In a particular verse it says that 'God is both inside and outside and there is nothing apart from Him. Whatever diversity you see is due to His yoga maya (illusion) and only he who breaks free from this chain of illusion identifies that He is the only one.' This particular verse made me think that it is logically plausible that with the many attributes which we assign to God, there is a possibility that we are actually in a dream world. Movies like The Matrix  and Inception depicts this idea very well . The second one is from the book 'The Tao of Physics' by physicist Fritjof Capra. In the book the author tries to establish a parallel between quantum physics and Eastern mysticism. The following illustration explains my reason (idea is taken from the book). Look at the following image What did you notice ? A line? Are you sure beyond doubt that it is a line in all aspects. Well then get ready, you will be proved wrong. Take a look at the full image now. What you actually noticed is a one dimensional projection (line) of a two dimensional (circle) body. This drive homes the point that we cannot completely comprehend everything given that we don't know that a higher dimension(s) exists. So it convinced me that logic doesn't always explain everything. From then on I got steadily convinced that GOD is beyond logic but yet my doubts haven't left me. Then I read a book which answered every question of mine and I can say that it altered my perspective about life,God and everything.  The book is 'Talks with Ramana Maharshi'. It is a record of conversations between spiritual seekers and Ramana Maharshi over a span of four years (1935-1939). Very profound book to understand philosophy,religion,God and everything. If you have come this far and if you are genuinely interested then I suggest you to download a pdf of the book and pick up any 10 random talks(conversations) and try to reflect on them. You will get more doubts and if you can still hold on then read all the talks from beginning to end. There will be lot of doubts created and at the same time they will be answered in the very book. Cheers :) Updated 5 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes