What are some topics/fields in physics that aren't traditionally taught in the undergraduate physics curriculum but are worth learning/really cool?
Well, its not a true physics field, but information and computation theory are making its way into physics through statistical mechanics and quantum computation. Perhaps Alon was thinking of this when he mentioned Ising models, but one reason to study them is because although it is known for being a nice simple physical model (see this post, especially the link therein to David's answer on a different question) it is essentially a more general computer. Quantum computation induces fundamental questions about what is allowed w.r.t. information (Holevo bound, time travel, computability in general, bounds on physical communication efficiency), and although normal computation asks these questions too, it becomes much more interesting because we believe QM to be a true description of reality. And complexity gives clues for how efficiently we can hope to simulate certain quantum systems (the original motivation for quantum computing). These are big problems in theoretical and applied physics, especially in condensed matter, materials, devices, and so on, so it is well worth finding different methods and perspectives. Additionally, Mark Eichenlaub mentioned networks, which would include Ising models as they have very nice graph interpretations as well as strong connections to algorithms inspired by statistical physics and artificial neural networks. Not to mention other interesting models besides Ising problems, e.g., those that derive from Markov processes. For those who will move on from physics someday, these will be essential theoretical tools in other fields. And, having to learn some computer science topics exposes students to a lot of math that physics doesn't normally encounter (number theory, graphs, games), which is especially nice when you can find motivation to learn it that comes from physics. There are some good books that bring some things together (perhaps suitable for a special topics course): A fantastic modern statistical mechanics textbook, like Sethna's: Statistical Mechanics: Entropy, Order Parameters and Complexity: James P. Sethna Any good QC book: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information: Michael A. Nielsen, Isaac L. Chuang An Introduction to Quantum Computing: Phillip Kaye, Raymond Laflamme, Michele Mosca Supplement with (which Mark also mentioned in his post): Quantum Computing since Democritus: Scott Aaronson A truly interdisciplinary book: Information, Physics, and Computation: Marc Mézard, Andrea Montanari N.B. I have not read this one, but it is highly recommended by some big names, FWIW (Aaronson, Vazirani, Kleinberg) and highly rated, perhaps use as a supplement to one of the above books: The Nature of Computation: Cristopher Moore, Stephan Mertens Most of these are currently graduate textbooks, but it's not anything that is out of reach for an undergrad. Updated 15 Aug 2014 • View Upvotes