Who is Airbnb's biggest competition?Who are Airbnb's largest competitors?
With so many vacation rental websites out there today, it can be difficult to figure out the best place to list your property. Conducting a quick Google search will result in a variety of specialty websites such as:   The Apartment Service (www.theapartmentservice.com) At Home Abroad, Inc. (www.athomeabroadinc.com) Great Rentals (www.greatrentals.com) Holiday Lettings (www.holidayletting.co.uk) Online Vacation Rentals (www.onlinevacationrentals) Rentalo (www.rentalo.com) Sea2Sky Vacation Rentals (www.sea2skyvacationrentals.com) Vacation Home Rentals (www.vacationhomerentals.com Villas International (www.villasitnl.com)   It is not uncommon to see property managers listing their properties across ten or more of these outlets.  But times are changing, and a consolidation of the bigger sites has created five main players.  Airbnb [www.airbnb.com] FlipKey [www.flipkey.com] HomeAway [www.homeaway.com] VacationRentals. [www.vacationrentals.com] VRBO [www.vrbo.com]   A Cost Comparison   The revenue model for vacation rental websites had been the same for the 15 years before Airbnb arrived. Property owners (hosts) would buy annual subscriptions to several individual vacation rental websites.  Serious hosts would pay for “upgraded” listings to improve their visibility by highlighting their ad at the top of the search results.  These premium listings promise up to “4x more booking” for a hefty fee.   For example, a basic listing with HomeAway is $349, but a premier listing goes for nearly $1,000.  These traditional websites all employ the same tactics to upsell their users. Get people to sign up for a basic listing and then blame their lack of success on the lack of investment in their ad.   Airbnb entered the market and saw a way to grab market share by charging nothing up front and taking fees only when bookings were confirmed.  Here’s a quick comparison of the fee structures for the five largest sites.  HomeAway responded to the threat of Airbnb by offering a pay-per-booking option. The fee is 10% of each booking, which is cheaper than Airbnb overall, but you can expect to have your listing buried under the hundreds of other premium-paying subscribers in your city. Seeing the success of Airbnb, FlipKey (by TripAdvisor) also entered with a similar pay-per-booking option to try to get in on the action.  FlipKey has a great user interface and strong financial backing, but they continue to struggle gain new members.   Traditional Fixed Fees vs. Per Booking Pricing   Let’s take $500 as the average price of a reasonably well-positioned listing on HomeAway or VRBO.  It is interesting to see where the break-even point is between a $500 fixed-fee listing and an Airbnb pay-per-booking fee of 3%.     The graph shows that if you are expecting to earn less than $15,000 dollars per year on your vacation rental then Airbnb looks like an obvious choice.   But, remember, that Airbnb is charging fees to the host AND the guest. It is important to look at the total cost of rental from the customer’s perspective.  Guest fees range from 6% (for more expensive stays) to 12% (for cheaper stays).  Let’s take 8% as the fee the average guest incurs and again see what the break-even point is when taking all of the service fees into account.       Over the course of a year these fees become substantial. Listing your place with Airbnb will cost more if you are expecting as little as $5,000 in bookings, and will cost you an additional $1,000 for every $12,000 in booking you receive throughout the year.   So… why would I list my properties with Airbnb when I’m expecting over $150,000 in bookings this year!!??    In one word: FREEDOM I spend an average of 2-hours per week managing each apartment. Airbnb allows me to leverage my time so effectively that I am now netting over $400 per hour. Airbnb is not competing on price, it is competing on VALUE. Unlike a traditional vacation home rental market where owners were looking to have longer term stays with relatively few well-screened guests. Airbnb has switched the paradigm by creating a less restrictive, more dynamic marketplace. By handling transactions, allowing for instant bookings, and streamlining the reservation process, the website allows for a higher volume of bookings for an ever- increasing variety of accommodations.   With all this being said, it is important to note that Airbnb is not the right option for everyone.   For instance, HomeAway or VRBO might be better primary options for you if you are planning to:   ·      Rent a high value home (over $500 a night) ·      Rent to long-term tenants (over a month) I do recommend that if you use VRBO or HomeAway for longer stays, that you complement it with an Airbnb listing to help book the gaps in-between longer stays.  Check out my website http://rentingyourplace.com for more info and check out Airdna - Airbnb Data and Analyticsa to see how airbnb properties are performing in over 4,000 cities worldwide. Updated 3 Jul • View Upvotes