Could anyone have anticipated that John Roberts would be somewhat more centrist than expected?Some conservatives are criticizing the Roberts pick in hindsight, but based on his pre-appointment track record, could anyone have guessed that he'd have turned out this way? Did any conservatives express misgivings at the time?
I strongly approve of Ross Cohen's answer to this question. Source: U-M College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Ideological leanings of U.S. Supreme Court justices The graph above does show Roberts firmly in the middle of the court, yet still strongly conservative. As Ross says, the court has been shifting to the right strikingly since 2005 in following Kennedy as the swing vote. According to this data, Roberts has been the most conservative Chief Justice since Rehnquist's early years. However, a second set of data presents a slightly different picture: Source: Page on georgetown.edu Here, Roberts is less conservative than Rehnquist but still firmly grouped with the other conservatives on the court, despite from the centrist yet still conservative-leaning Kennedy. Note also the significant difference between O'Connor and Roberts in both cases, as the political context of O'Connor retiring and Rehnquist passing away meant that Roberts was essentially locked in as President Bush's pick for the Chief Justice. Roberts should also be compared in the context of O'Connor, meaning that President Bush successfully shifted the O'Connor seat significantly with his pick, as he ultimately did with Associate Justice Alito as well. And yes, as Marc says, at least a few conservatives criticized Roberts at the time, since he presented himself as a little-c conservative, of a Burkean nature, rather than a big-c conservative, e.g. most conservative pundits or talk radio hosts. Finally, I'll add some data to complement Ross's answer in the sense of Roberts' role as Chief Justice: Source: My analysis, based off of 2005 term opinions of the Supreme Court of the United States et al. Starting around 2010, I don't show this, but Kennedy begins asserting himself as the kingmaker of the Roberts Court, slightly edging out the Chief Justice in most often being part of the Court's majority by three to five percentage points per year. Finally, you'll note that the 2014 Court (this nearly concluded year) was strikingly more liberal, despite Roberts, whose percentage of being part of the majority plunged. It will be interesting to see what the data show for the 2015 Court term. What seems to have happened in 2014 is that either Roberts or Kennedy have given the liberal wing of the Court (though one would hardly call them liberals based on the data) the necessary fifth vote. Now, this analysis is all top-level, which fails to detail special consideration for major cases or for the vast majority of straightforward, unanimous cases, as SCOTUSBlog indicates: Statistics Source: A few notes on unanimity (2014) Source: Compromise at the Supreme Court Veils Its Rifts Source: Why Does the Supreme Court Decide Most Cases Either 9–0 or 5–4? (2014) It remains easily possible with the data I have shown that Roberts is either shifting to the left to the chagrin of the right or is the activist conservative that the left accuses him on being, at least when it solely comes to the major cases. The issue is that the unanimous cases buffer the instances where Roberts is the kingmaker. The key remains cases that are decided by a 5-4 split majority. Often Kennedy has been the kingmaker, especially in recent years, so we're talking about a small number of cases where Kennedy has aligned with the conservatives and Roberts with the liberal-wing. Source: The Incredible Polarization and Politicization of the Supreme Court (2012) Finally, as Ross also mentions, this analysis does not go into the relative scope of the cases or how "far" rulings go in shifting the status quo, as there are no solid metrics for revisionist vs. status quo rulings. Still, it's fair to conclude that Roberts has not been more centrist than expected, though expectations were more about "hope and change" due to Roberts' lack of public stances on many issues at the point of his confirmation in 2005. Since then, he has also not lived up to every hope of the conservative movement, but he has advanced the conservative cause significantly and systematically. 