Are there methods to determine if an n-vertex graph has no m-vertex independent sets and no m-vertex cliques? Any suggested literature?
You seem to be asking several different questions. "Are there methods to determine...": This is the problem of figuring out if a given, specific graph contains a clique of a given size. Given such a method, you can apply it to both the graph and its complement in order to determine if the graph is free of both m-cliques and m-anticliques (an independent set of size m). The answer is Yes, of course there are such methods - you may really be wondering if there are efficient such methods, better than brute-force. The answer is again positive; maybe not as efficient as you might hope for but fairly efficient. For example, you allude to the problem of determining whether R(5,5)=43; this requires testing for 5-cliques, which can be done fairly rapidly using matrix exponentiation techniques (see [1] for an approach in the more general context of uniform hypergraphs). The second question is, how can we determine if R(5,5)=43, namely, is it the case than in a gathering of 43 people there must be 5 mutual strangers or 5 mutual acquaintances. This is asking for either a proof that this is always the case, or the construction of a specific graph on 43 vertices which presents a counterexample. There are certainly many known ways to tackle such problems; unfortunately, none of them has proven successful in settling this particular instance of the Ramsey Numbers problem. The smallishness of the numbers involved is misleading: yes, we can quickly check if a specific graph of size 43 has the necessary properties, but finding such a graph among the 2 903   different possibilities is a problem of a different magnitude. One of the most interesting results in this direction appears in a paper of Brendan McKay which, I'm afraid, I'll need to spend some time tracking down. What he (and a collaborator) did was generate as many graphs with 42 vertices as they could that contain no 5-cliques and no 5-anticliques; they found about 600 (not sure exactly but it was <700) such graphs, and they've found the same 600+ graphs over and over again when employing different methods. This lends some credibility to the conjecture that those graphs are all of the 42 graphs with said property; however, they have not been able to prove this fact. None of those 600+ graphs can be extended to a graph on 43 vertices satisfying the Ramsey property. They were able to show this as well. So, it's rather unlikely that there is a counterexample of size 43 - but no proof is known. Finally, you're asking about suggested readings: sure, just read any chapter on Ramsey Theory in a book on graph theory or combinatorics (Diestel, Bollobas and others). Brendan McKay has published extensively on the problem of computing specific small Ramsey numbers - he was the first to determine R(3,8) (with Zhang Ke Min) and R(4,5) (with Stanisław P. Radziszowski), so you should find his papers interesting (but not necessarily easy to read). [1] http://www.sciencedirect.com/sci... 