Why are you a theist?
Most conflicts and misconceptions relating to the negation of deities arise from the confused definitions of this label called "God". The label itself has no meaning, it could be called "Simon Kerrigan" in another universe, for all you know. However, what you mean when you use this label matters. When I say "God", I have a specific definition, a set of points that pins this label down into the realm of tangible logic. And then, I say I believe in this. So what is God? The most encompassing declaration of God is making God an ontological superset of all things existing. Simply take everything there is and everything there was, and the sum of it is what you call God. The created essence, and the force behind the existence of this created essence. Incomprehensible in totality, but the collection of all perceptible attributes, therefore overall possessing none. God is formless, without attributes, inclusive of everything. Simply a union of all there was and all there will be. All matter, all forces, everything. God is also manifest in the laws of physics, in addition to being the universe, the laws, expressions of God, also drive its motion and existence. Which brings me to my next point: God is aloof of joy and pain, independent of all creations. God is in the laws of physics, and the laws of physics don't bow to prayer or wishes. In that sense, direct divine intervention is an illusion, and God merely works through laws. The concepts of longing, desire, joy, sorrow, fairness, penance, are all human constructs, insignificant on the cosmic scale. The laws of the universe, the dynamics of the universe, remain constant regardless of all these, which means that desiring fruits from God through prayer is pointless. The pursuit of the seeker should be to visualize this reality: that joy and sorrow are both insignificant sides of the same coin, both equivalent, and the fulfillment of desires through offerings to a "benevolent" God is folly. I am a theist because I believe in the above conception of God. It does not clash with science, rather, it compliments it, forging with it to strengthen man's wonderment at the universe. Also, my "theism" does not entitle me to any "benevolence", which I know is a construct. The focus, rather, is to directly experience this superseding, all-knowing oneness, and then use it practically, in practicing constancy through the illusory motions of joy and sorrow, elevating spiritual stature, and using the same force to make my internal self better, and improving the outside. Also, "faith" is nothing but the practice of refining the theoretical and experiential knowledge of this truth. Like a good scientific theory, it keeps falsifying itself, updating itself, striving towards the highest form of truth. A Spiritual System I shall establish the skeleton for an underlying spiritual belief and action principles that are relevant in the modern age, addressing three prevalent questions regarding religion. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The first theme is theconception of God. I believe God to be a formless force that runs the universe, aloof from the human concepts of good and evil, and running rationally and according to formulated laws. This view of God addresses the question of God being used as a crutch, or God somehow being cruel on account of suffering in the world. Like mentioned in the Bhagavad Gita, good and bad are illusory concepts, man-made constructs, and God is an independent entity, ontologically superseding and encompassing everything. Thus, God is not an argument for good or evil, and the existence of God is not debatable as per this new definition, as God is simply the sum total of everything, the creator and the created. In this system, God is defined external to our constructed systems of material achievement and feelings that spring out of desire. This is also in line with the conception of God as moral law, higher and unbiased due to human opinion or feeling. This gives us an entirely pragmatic and logical definition of God.  Also, there is a difference between mythology and essence, as presented in books about religion. Numerous elements of religious doctrine are born out of social pressures and prevalent notions of the time of composition. Intelligence is in working to sieve out the true purport of religion and spirituality, rather than demeaning the more earthbound aspects of religious literature. Similarly, idols are receptacles to project and focus man's concentration towards spiritual pursuit, bringing the intangible to the realm of the physically perceptible. Nothing more. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The second question is that ofaction. Gandhian religion urges all actions to take birth from the concept of devotion and selflessness. The definition of ahimsa, a central pillar in Gandhian thought, is intricately woven into this definition of action. The meaning of nonviolence is expanded to instruct the doer to do without desire or attachment to results, this eliminating pain, and by that route, sorrow and himsa. This declaration has the potential to alleviate pains and spread internal and external peace through the riddance of desire and the growth of compassion and selflessness. In the modern world, we need such practice more than ever, in light of the growing lust for material achievements, pervading violence, and the negative role craving plays in society as a whole.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The third problem lies in theconflict of different faiths and the subsequent alienation of most people from the spiritual path. A central tenet of my system is to establish Truth and Love as the bases of all religions, and its insistence on realizing the unity of all faiths. Gandhian religion thus breeds harmony between all religions and celebrates the great human endeavour of trying to glimpse the one higher Truth. It integrates morality into every religion, and its pragmatic view of God is shown in partial aspects in all faiths. Thus, we must strive towards seeking the nuclei of our own religions. In an age where perhaps the true purport of world faiths is lost in a sordid torrent of opposition and focus on the waffle that has grown around each religion, this presents a simple way to rediscover spiritual character and to seek the one higher Truth that fuels all spiritual enterprise.   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Concluding, I have presented a practical spiritual system, based on a rational view of God, selflessness, ethics, morality, and the principal oneness of all religions, borne out of the aspects of my own spiritual studies, and studies of Indian religion. The points of this system transcend any single definition of religion, promote harmony, and encourage discovering faith and mixing it with action to breed compassion and better living. Keeping in mind the spiritual emptiness, endless warring and the existence of lust as a major driving force in the modern day and age, the above system presents a perfect remedy, one that metaphysically and logically explores the root of all spirituality and retains relevance with a strong focus on application, compassion and rationality. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This is why, and how, I am a theist. 