Why are you a theist?
I think Gauri Noolkar has answered this question very well. My answer may be considered as an addendum to it because I intend to write about another aspect of Hinduism - philosophy. I am restricting my answer only to Hinduism because it is very different from the Abrahamic religions. Personally I find it difficult to even refer to Hinduism as a religion. It is more a bunch of philosophies and schools of thought that are brought together under one umbrella. I am a theist simply because I find one such school of thought in Hinduism (called Advaita Vedanta) appealing and I try my very best to incorporate it into every aspect of my life. Advaita (A - Dvaita = Not Two) philosophy simply states that the identity of your soul - Atma is the same as that of the highest reality - Brahman. In simpler terms, this philosophy states that divinity exists within you and everyone around you. That there is no "God" figure who judges and decides whether you go to heaven or hell. This Brahman is simply a state of higher truth. It is attribute-less and formless. Your true self (your Atma or soul) and this Brahman are not separate beings but rather are part of one Consciousness. This school of thought does not actively encourage anybody to show up at a temple regularly or even pray regularly for that matter. Nor is this philosophy some obscure and abstract concept that sounds great on paper but isn't much good in everyday life. It establishes a goal to attain. It firmly establishes what life's purpose ought to be if you want the end result to be pure bliss and contentment. The purpose of life, according to this philosophy, ought to be pursuit of this greater truth or Brahman. That life in pursuit of only material comforts is not life at all but rather becomes something of a very stressful rat race! Because understanding this truth (Brahman) is equivalent to understanding yourself. This knowledge of self will lead to pure happiness and bliss. Simple right? As an after thought, not something that is main stream to the philosophy, but important all the same, I'd like to point out that since the Atman (true self) in each and every one of us and the ultimate truth (Brahman) is the same, we ought to do onto others what we'd expect others to do for us. So yes I am a theist. Maybe not in the traditional sense of praying everyday or visiting a temple. But in my own way :) 