★Is it possible to increase the range of a wireless router?
Your biggest issue will be the maximum allowed power levels for WiFi. That's 100mW for 2.4GHz and 200mW for 5.0GHz. Given that the electromagnetic spectrum power versus distance equation is the inverse square law (double your distance, quarter your power, or treble your distance, get one-ninth of the power), being able to increase the power level by small amounts won't have a large effect in the long run. This leaves you with three options: Better place your router. All SOHO routers are generally quite omnidirectional - they tend to try and spread out the signal equally in all directions to cover all rooms on all levels. So if, for example, your ISP's connection point is in the corner of your house and you put your router there, your router could be trying to send up to three-quarters of it's signal outside the house. Where possible, move the router to a more central position within the house to provide more equal coverage. Upgrade to Directional Antenna. If you only live on a single level (i.e. flat or bungalow), and you can't really move your router, AND you have a router which supports custom external antenna (normally found as pigtail sockets on more expensive models), you could connect dedicated directional antenna to override the internal ones and provide you with a more focused coverage. These will normally have a gain associated with them too, so they'll also work better for greater distance. Extend your wireless network with Wireless Extenders. There are a range of devices available designed to extend wireless networks. You can have wired model that connects back to the router's switch via ethernet, power-line based devices that use your building's electrical wires, or mesh-based devices that repeat wireless signals. Ethernet models are better than powerline, which are better than mesh devices, especially as if you get a mesh-based devices that can only work on the same channel you can actually slow down the whole wireless network at the expense of extra coverage.    Embed Quote