★What is the most recommended way to set up 2+ wireless routers at home?One router is not enough to provide a strong signal throughout the entire house. Should I use one as a repeater? Two different SSID's? Something else? The goal is not to have to modify any settings when moving around the house - the devices (smartphones, tablets, laptops) should automatically connect to the router with the best signal.
Assuming there is no dedicated server in the house, and there is cable between the two access points, this is how I would set it up: Scan for networks within reach of the desired coverage area, note all the channels in use, and how many access points per channel. Select two free channels that are at least 2 channels apart from any network, you need larger channel width the cheaper your equipment is, WiFi channels overlap so you need to hop channels, channel selected is usually (in order) 6, 1, 12, 3, and 9 for the 2.4GHz band, and you can also use the 5GHz band if your devices support it. If you are setting up more than two routers/APs, you can position them in a checker-board pattern and still only use two channels if you like. If two are not available, select one who has few users and a good reception (so they can negotiate how to divide the traffic). Connect your first router to the internet connection on the WAN-port. Connect your computer to the router and set it up, and make sure you change the admin password for the web configuration panel, even if you decide to not set up WEP/WPA encryption, and set the channel to one of the ones you selected. Check the DHCP settings on the router and see what range it is within, the router could have an address of 192.168.1.1/24, but only assign addresses in the range 192.168.1.50 to 192.168.1.120, you need to select an address that is outside that range, but still within the same netmask, for the second router. A good choice for the case above would be 192.168.1.2, but anything starting with 192.168.1. and continuing with 2 to 49, or 121 to 254 is ok. If the range is all inclusive, you will want to change the range, if that is not possible using an address within the DHCP range works but causes a small lag when connecting new devices. Connect your second router or access point to your computer and set it up. This time you need to change the settings a little differently. Most settings including the SSID should be the same as the first router, so I will only list the differences here. You need to set the internal address to the one that was available in step 5, and once you set it you need to reconnect to the router/AP. You need to turn the DHCP server off, the first router will supply that service. You should set it to the second channel that you selected, not the same one as the first router. Some routers isolate the LAN and WLAN traffic, if your router does this you must disable that feature to get a response from the first routers DHCP. Connect the cable to the LAN port on both routers/APs, some routers support using the WAN port as an extra LAN port, in that case you can use the WAN port and save a port for future devices. :) On very old routers that do not support MDI/MDI-X, you need a crossover cable or adapter. That should be it, and hopefully I have not forgotten anything, leave a comment or suggest an edit if it fails.    Embed Quote