★How do I use my iPhone as a wireless router?I don't exactly understand the hotspot thing. We went with the hotspot plan from AT&T cause we thought it be easier to broadcast games & remotes. But don't you have to have a wireless connection to connect to? I'm an idiot & I need someone to explain how I can use it like I m a 5 year old.
First, only the iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S have this capability. Earlier models do not. You must ensure that your iPhone is one of these models if you want to take advantage of the Hotspot feature. Next, you must make sure your carrier supports it, and what the charges will be if you utilize the feature. For instance, Verizon and AT&T in the US both charge a $20 fee for the use of the feature, in addition to any data used. On the other hand, my carrier here in Saudi Arabia, mobily, does not charge anything at all for use of the feature (and still offers unlimited data plans). Your mileage may vary. To turn it on, as Glyn has said, open your "Settings" app. It should be listed on that page as the fourth option, if it is not disabled by your carrier. It will be listed as "Personal Hotspot". Alternatively, it is also listed under "Settings ➛ General ➛ Network ➛ Personal Hotspot" (you will have to scroll down to see it on the "Network" page; it will be underneath "Data Roaming"). The directions for connecting via either Bluetooth or Wi-Fi are given on the "Personal Hotspot" page. Personal observations (may vary): It will only support a maximum of 5 devices by design. In my experience, though, it usually won't allow more than 4 to connect for some reason. Sometimes you must actually have the Personal Hotspot page up on your screen for other devices to "see" the hotspot network. I don't know why this is, but it is often the case for me. Perhaps it times out and has to be woken up in this way? Mine has a bad tendency to drop connection to the 3G service, and sometimes the Hotspot has to be turned off and then back on to work properly. There are also times when then iPhone itself must be powered down and then turned back on to reestablish a connection. Mine will not operate if the iPhone cannot find a 3G signal. When it reverts to the Edge network, the Hotspot automatically shuts off (but will come back on when 3G signal is reestablished). For the record, not to start an argument, but I would not recommend jailbreaking your iPhone if you can help it. While it does provide some additionally functionality (some of which is really useful), it also compromises the security and stability of the system. So do so at your own risk.    Embed Quote