★What QoS service should I prioritize on a wireless router for the best streaming video (Netflix, Hulu etc.)?I want to make sure nothing interrupts or affects the quality of watching a HD movie on Netflix. This is the list of services my ASUS RT-AC66U router gives me in the Traffic Manager: Screenshot 2014-02-22 20.47.58.png I'm not sure what Netflix/Hulu/HBO GO/etc. are considered... "HTTP, SSL, File Transfers?" Or just "File Transfers?" Something else? Thanks!
I would give priority to FaceTime (UDP) and PPTV.. The router does not know what app or even what OS you are running. The lines correspond to protocols. Engineers were afraid terms like H.264, VC-1, and RTSP would be unfamiliar to home users, so they substituted the names of popular apps (in Taiwan). FaceTime, YouTube, and Adobe Flash all use H.264 via UDP. NetFlix and NetMeeting use a Microsoft version of H.263 called VC-1, but they use UDP, not TCP. The NetMeeting menu selection says TCP, making it useless. You also do not want FTP/Windows Live Messenger because it too is TCP. PPTV is a Chinese peer-to-peer that uses the same protocols (plural) as dozens of more familiar peer-to-peer, streaming, and multicast servers such as Darwin.. The most common of those protocols is RTSP over UDP. By selecting PPTV, which you probably never heard of, you are selecting all open source video. RTSP uses port 554, so you might want to give priority to that port. If you could identify a port your Netflix player is using, you could give it priority by its port number. The easiest way to see ports is via Windows Resource Monitor, which can be started via Task Manager/Performance, or by its name "resmon." You could also view ports with "netstat -a". When I looked at it playing through Firefox, traffic was coming through port 80, same as web browsing. Maybe you will get lucky. If it is still slow, go back and try NetMeeting and FTP/WLM. It does not hurt to have multiples in high priority because you're using only one at a time. Note the router does not have a selection for VoIP phone (SIP). That's the app that has the greatest need for priority. Maybe the Windows Live selection is SIP. Why else would it be on the menu twice?    Embed Quote