How reliable is the 100 point scoring system for choosing wine?
The "100 point" wine scoring system is completely unreliable. First, if the system used for rating is dependent on the person using the system then it can't possibly be reliable on any level. If you pay enough attention to specific reviewers and your own tastes, you can hack the scale to work for you, but I wouldn't call that "reliable." More importantly, the 100-point scale was intended to be similar to the American grading system so that it would easily make sense to Americans. (See the video provided by Norm Soley in his answer on this page.) Unfortunately, that's one of the other reasons that the system is unreliable. The public doesn't want a wine that didn't score an "A," so a wine that isn't at the top of the class just doesn't sell as well. Because of this, wine scores in general are being skewed higher and higher, which causes the system to be more and more unreliable. (See the graphic below where 55% of 2009's wines were rated 90 and above.) In a 50 to 100 scale, the average rating would be 75, making a wine with the score of 80 an above-average and desirable wine, but the flaws inherent in this system make a wine with a score of 80 seem second-rate. Lastly, publications provide most of the wine ratings in the world and they are dependent on advertisers (wine producers) to remain financially viable. This alone screams "conflict of interest" and should be reason enough to embrace a different rating scale. The "100-point" scale is broken and the wine world needs something to take its place. Maybe a better system will eventually end up here: Is there a standard wine rating system or well-regarded one? (As of February 2012, the current, flawed systems are the only ones on that page.) 2009 Pinot Noir ratings from Wine Spectator (Keep in mind, the WS Rating system goes from 50-100, not 75-100, as is implied with the chart. Points graphic taken from: http://www.wellesleywinepress.co...) Some of the most common wine rating systems, including the "100-point" scale. (Wine rating graphic from: http://www.delongwine.com/how_we...) Updated 134w ago • View Upvotes