How reliable is the 100 point scoring system for choosing wine?
I've voted up a few answers here already, and I would otherwise not answer... but there is a pretty major factor here that most people like to pretend isn't in play, but it is. And no, I'm not going the route of "MARKETING BUDGETS!!!" Besides the obvious reasons why a 100 point rating system (or any rating system, really) doesn't work for wine (see Jim's and Rupert's answers), one of the absolute biggest problems here is two-fold, but pivoting around the same issue: Wine is not a 100% consistent product. Wines don't taste the same from one month to the next. Wines in barrel are different, but none the less this point still stands: two days ago I tasted a Cab out of barrel that I was pretty disappointed with when we tasted it last summer. Two days ago, it was awesome. Wine in bottle doesn't move as quickly, but the point stands. More importantly, though: wine tasting is not a 100% consistent experience. Meaning that the way a wine tastes to a reviewer who is also tasting 10 other wines of the same varietal/region/price range is going to be very different from the way you taste it at dinner. When we taste out of barrel, I often times note when I feel my palate's full sensitivity is officially gone, and when I feel like I'm only really competently assessing the basics of the wine, and not anything more than that. Some days, that's 10 barrels in. Others, it's 40 barrels in. Some days, nothing really tastes that great to me. This is the reality of wine tasting, and the concept that tasting a wine "blind" somehow gives a "control" to the tasting is patently ridiculous. It's well known to winemakers that wines of higher pH and a touch of residual sugar show well in panel tastings. Higher alc, to an extent, doesn't hurt either. And I'm not even getting into the mental bias that comes with tasting in the presence of notes or other info that can subconsciously bias the way you think about a wine... Long story short, besides the obvious human element to wine judging (lack of reliability, any sort of real metric, the difference in preference and style of judges, etc...), more material, simple roadblocks exist as well. Past all of that... when it really boils down to it, wine is a whole lot more complicated and related to region, style, and preference than a lot of wine "writers" and "judges" would like to admit. The concept that there is any single metric that can give you a good idea of what a wine tastes like is basically a dead end. But the concept that a single metric can sell a whole lot of wines, magazines, and self-importance is, unfortunately, completely legitimate. 