What are the different branches of mathematics, and what type of problems are they designed to solve?
As other answers have pointed out , there are numerous (a word related to number , and hence to mathematics) branches and areas in mathematics , and they are all related and interconnected in one way or another. Branches can also be divided into sub-branches . Here are a few examples: Some would say that the main branches of mathematics are algebra , geometry , and arithmetic (the science of numbers was an important branch of mathematics until the Middle Ages) , others would add analysis , logic , etc. Algebra generally comprises abstract algebra , the study of rings and fields , linear algebra , and vector spaces. Arithmetic and number theory are viewed as sub-fields of algebra , as well as group theory , representation theory (the study of the elements of algebraic structures as transformations of vector spaces) , homological algebra , commutative algebra ... Analysis involves infinitesimal quantities and the passage to a limit . It comprises (integral and differential ) calculus , vector analysis , complex analysis , real analysis , Fourier analysis , the study of differential equations ... Geometry , the study of space , shapes , and sizes , includes differential geometry , algebraic geometry , analytic geometry , affine geometry , projective geometry , Euclidian and non-Euclidian geometry , noncommutative geometry , topology , etc. The theory of the foundations of mathematics includes the study of mathematical and symbolic logic , set theory , model theory , proof theory ,... Pure mathematics is sometimes distinguished from applied mathematics , which comprises disciplines such as probability theory and statistics , numerical analysis , computer algebra , ... Other fields of mathematics include combinatorics , graph theory , ergodic theory , etc. All the branches of mathematics are used in various ways by the exact sciences  (physics , astronomy , ...) and by the social sciences. There is by the way an area of mathematics called 'mathematical physics' . A certain field of mathematics is sometimes interconnected with a number of other fields of mathematics. For example , tensor analysis is closely related to differential geometry , multilinear algebra , mathematical physics , algebraic topology , ... Here are some useful links about the branches of mathematics : Branches of Mathematics Areas of mathematics Glossary of areas of mathematics 