How can I implement this linked list in a C program?I suppose you have just started. So beginning with the most simple i.e. Singly linked list you will require a structure that can hold Data A pointer to a node of the type your structure isThis will be the base of your linked list. Next you will require a start pointer which will point to the first node of your list. You can either create this node locally and pass its value to each function or you can create a global start pointer which will be accessible to all your functions. After this you can create functions to append a node to the list, delete a node from the list or traverse the list and other similar operations you wish to perform on the list. To make things easier I follow a set of guidelines which makes it easier to implement same functions over other types of linked lists with subtle differences. Create a node using malloc function, and store the address returned by it in a local pointer. Assign value to the data part of your node and null to the pointer part of your node. Now traverse the nodes with the help of the start pointer and a temporary pointer and provide certain checks wherever necessary. On reaching the desired node after which you want to append the newly created node, change the value of the pointer part of that node to point to the newly created node.In sum you have to declare, initialize and then append the node according to your req. A good way of doing so is to create a graphical or pictorial layout of steps that you will encounter in doing an operation before actually doing it. This will help significantly in understanding how to approach the problem step by step. Book on data structure by R L Kruse or Tannenbaum is recommended for better understanding. I see you have asked a full fledged question. We can help you enough to make you understand how linked lists work and sort out any specific problems that may occur but doing your work for you is far fetched. Hope you succeed. 569 Views  View Upvotes