Dual-stack (or "native dual-stack") refers to side-by-side implementation of IPv4 and IPv6. That is, both protocols run on the same network infrastructure, and there's no need to encapsulate IPv6 inside IPv4 (using tunneling) or vice-versa. Dual-stack is defined in RFC 4213.[51]
Although this is the most desirable IPv6 implementation, as it avoids the complexities and pitfalls of tunneling (such as security, increased latency, management overhead, and a reduced PMTU),[52] it is not always possible, since outdated network equipment may not support IPv6. A good example is cable TV-based internet access. In modern cable TV networks, the core of the HFC network (such as large core routers) are likely to support IPv6. However, other network equipment (such as a CMTS) or customer equipment (like cable modems) may require software updates or hardware upgrades to support IPv6. This means cable network operators must resort to tunneling until the backbone equipment supports native dual-stack.
IPsec support is usually implemented in the kernel with key management and ISAKMP/IKE negotiation carried out from user-space. Existing IPsec implementations often include both.
Dual-stack (or "native dual-stack") refers to side-by-side implementation of IPv4 and IPv6. That is, both protocols run on the same network infrastructure, and there's no need to encapsulate IPv6 inside IPv4 (using tunneling) or vice-versa. Dual-stack is defined in RFC 4213.[51]
Although this is the most desirable IPv6 implementation, as it avoids the complexities and pitfalls of tunneling (such as security, increased latency, management overhead, and a reduced PMTU),[52] it is not always possible, since outdated network equipment may not support IPv6. A good example is cable TV-based internet access. In modern cable TV networks, the core of the HFC network (such as large core routers) are likely to support IPv6. However, other network equipment (such as a CMTS) or customer equipment (like cable modems) may require software updates or hardware upgrades to support IPv6. This means cable network operators must resort to tunneling until the backbone equipment supports native dual-stack.
Two implementations of the Media Gateway Control Protocol are in common use. The names of both are abbreviations of the protocol group:
MGCP is described in RFC 3435.[4] H.248/Megaco is described in RFC 3525.[5] [ Obsoleted by: RFC 5125.[6]]
Although similar in architecture, MGCP and H.248/Megaco are distinctly different protocols and are not interoperable. H.248/Megaco and MGCP protocols are complementary to H.323 and Session Initiation Protocol. Both H.323 and SIP can be referred to as "intelligent endpoint protocols". H.248/Megaco and MGCP can be referred to as "device control protocols".[7] [8]
PPTP was the first VPN protocol that was supported by Microsoft Dial-up Networking. All releases of Microsoft Windows since Windows 95 OSR2 are bundled with a PPTP client, although they are limited to only 2 concurrent outbound connections. Microsoft Windows Mobile 2003 and higher also support the PPTP protocol. The Routing and Remote Access Service for Microsoft Windows contains a PPTP server. The Microsoft implementation uses single DES in the MS-CHAP authentication protocol which many find unsuitable for data protection needs.[2]
Windows Vista and later support the use of PEAP with PPTP. The authentication mechanisms supported are PEAPv0/EAP-MSCHAPv2 (passwords) and PEAP-TLS (smartcards and certificates). Windows Vista removed support for using the MSCHAP-v1 protocol to authenticate remote access connections.[3]
Linux server-side support for PPTP is provided by the PoPToP daemon[4] and kernel modules for PPP and MPPE. The first PPTP implementation was developed by Matthew Ramsay in 1999[5] and initially distributed under the GNU GPL by Moreton Bay. However, Linux distributions initially lacked full PPTP support because MPPE was believed to be patent encumbered. Full MPPE support was added to the Linux kernel in the 2.6.14 release on October 28, 2005. SuSE Linux 10 was the first Linux distribution to provide a complete working PPTP client. There is also ACCEL-PPP - PPTP/L2TP/PPPoE server for Linux[6] which supports PPTP in kernel-mode.
OS X and iOS are bundled with a PPTP client. Cisco and Efficient Networks sell PPTP clients for older Mac OS releases. Palm PDA devices with Wi-Fi are bundled with the Mergic PPTP client.[citation needed]
Many different Mobile phones with Android as the operating system support PPTP as well.
The SCTP reference implementation runs on FreeBSD, Mac OS X, Windows, Linux.[6]
The following operating systems implement SCTP:
AIX Version 5 and newer Generic BSD with external patch at KAME project Cisco IOS 12 DragonFly BSD since version 1.4 FreeBSD, version 7 and above, contains the reference SCTP implementation[7] HP-UX, 11i v2 and above[8] Linux kernel-based 2.4 and newer QNX Neutrino Realtime OS,[9] 6.3.0 to 6.3.2 but not 6.4.0 and above[10] Sun Solaris 10 and above[11]
Third-party drivers:
Microsoft Windows: The SctpDrv kernel driver is a port of the BSD SCTP stack to Windows[12]
Userspace library:
The SCTP library[13] Windows XP port[14] Oracle Java SE 7
A virtual router must use 00-00-5E-00-01-XX as its Media Access Control (MAC) address. The last byte of the address (XX) is the Virtual Router IDentifier (VRID), which is different for each virtual router in the network. This address is used by only one physical router at a time, and it will reply with this MAC address when an ARP request is sent for the virtual router's IP address. Physical routers within the virtual router must communicate within themselves using packets with multicast IP address 224.0.0.18 and IP protocol number 112.[2]
Routers have a priority of between 1-255 and the router with the highest priority will become the master. When a planned withdrawal of a master router is to take place, its priority can be lowered which means a backup router will pre-empt the master router status rather than having to wait for the hold time to expire. This reduces the black hole period.
